autopattr - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsnameAttributesautonameautorestoredirtygreedynameannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameMessagesbangintfloatlistanythinggetattributesgetstateOutput(internal)anythingSee AlsoPackage Maxautopattr

		Expose multiple objects to the pattr system
	 
Description

		Causes multiple objects within a patcher to be automatically included in the pattr system.
		 

		Note: you should use only one instance of an autopattr object per level in a patch.
	 
Arguments



name[symbol]

optional


				A symbol argument can be used to set the autopattr object's  name . In the absence of an argument, the autopattr object is given an arbitrary, semi-random name, such as u197000004.
			 
Attributes



autoname[int]




				The word  autoname , followed by a 1 or 0, enables or disables the autopattr object's autoname state. The default is 0 (off). When enabled, the autopattr object will automatically name any unnamed objects in the patcher supported by the pattr system and bind to them, if possible. Naming only occurs when the patcher loads, when the autopattr object is again instantiated, or when the autopattr object receives the message  autoname 1 . New objects placed in a patcher after the autopattr has been instantiated will not be autonamed until one of these conditions is met.
			 




autorestore[int]




				The word  autorestore , followed by a 1 or 0, enables or disables the autopattr object's autorestore state. The default is 1 (on). When enabled, the autopattr object will automatically output its last-saved values when the patcher is loaded, and distribute them to bound objects. Values are saved whenever the patcher is saved.
			 




dirty[int]




				The word  dirty , followed by a 1 or 0, enables or disables the patcher-dirty flag. The default is 0 (disabled). When enabled, the autopattr object will dirty the patch whenever its state changes.
			 




greedy[int]




				The word  greedy , followed by a 1 or 0, enables or disables the attribute-gathering feature of the autopattr object. The default is 0 (disabled). When enabled, any internal attributes of objects attached to the left outlet of the autopattr object will be exposed to the pattr system (as well as the normal value, if present).
			 




name[symbol]




				The word  name , followed by a symbol, sets the autopattr object's patcher name.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 


Messages


bang



 bang  is passed through the autopattr object and output from its center right outlet.
			 



int




				An  int  is passed through the autopattr object and output from its center right outlet.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      




float




 float  is passed through the autopattr object and output from its center right outlet.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




list




 list  is passed through the autopattr object and output from its center right outlet.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [list]
      




anything




				Any  message  is analyzed. If the first element of the  message  matches the name of an object maintained by the autopattr, the subsequent arguments in the  message  set that object's value. If the first element of the  message  matches  get  (name), where (name) matches the name of an object maintained by the autopattr, the value of that object is sent from the autopattr object's right outlet, prepended by the object's name. Otherwise, the  message  is passed through the autopattr object and output from its center right outlet.
			 
Arguments:
input/arguments
      [list]
      




getattributes



				Causes a list of all objects names maintained by the autopattr object to be output from the right outlet, prepended by the symbol  attributes .
			 



getstate



				Causes a series of lists to be output from the autopattr object's right outlet, one for every object maintained by the autopattr. Each list begins with the name of the object, and is followed by the object's current value.
			 
Output

(internal)

				Out left outlet: Any user interface object (or other object that responds to the internal messaging system utilized by autopattr) connected to the left outlet of the autopattr object will be automatically named (if necessary) and bound to. If the autopattr object's  greedy  attribute has been enabled, any attributes associated with the bound object will also be exposed to the pattr system. The name is automatically generated from the object's class name (e.g. a connected number box might be named number[1].) At the time of this writing, the following Max user interface objects can be bound in this fashion: dial, function, gain~, ggate, gswitch, js, jsui (see the JavaScript in Max manual for more information on using the pattr system with JavaScript), led, matrixctrl, multislider, number box (int and float), pictctrl, pictslider, radiogroup, rslider, slider, table, textedit, toggle and umenu.				 

				Out center-left outlet: Any user interface object (or other object that responds to the internal messaging system utilized by autopattr) connected to the center left outlet of the autopattr object will be automatically named (if necessary) and excluded from the autopattr object's bound-object list.
			 


anything

				Out center-right outlet: Any  message  not matching a  get  or  set  request to an object maintained by the autopattr is passed, unchanged, through the center right outlet.
				 

				Out right outlet:  get  queries to an object maintained by the autopattr are output from the right outlet, also known as the  dumpout  outlet.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




pattr


		Provide an alias with a named data wrapper
	



pattrforward


		Send any message to a named object
	



pattrhub


		Access all pattr objects in a patcher
	



pattrmarker


		Provide pattr communication between patchers
	



pattrstorage


		Save and recall pattr presets
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74