array - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsvalueAttributesnameparameter_enableparameter_mappablesizeannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangintfloatlistanythingappendarrayatomscleardeletedictionarygetinsertprependreplacereserveshrinkstringSee AlsoPackage Maxarray

		Create or duplicate an array object
	 
Description

		Create or duplicate a named array object.
	 
Arguments



value[atoms]

optional


				The initial contents of the array can be supplied as a Max list.
			 
Attributes



name[symbol]




				Like dictionary and string objects, or like Jitter matrices, array objects can have names. These can be used to reference them from Javascript or from another array object.
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Parameter Mode Enable
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				Visible to Mapping
			 




size[int]

read-only


				The size refers to the number of elements in the array.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				Output the current array.
			 



int




				Convert an integer to an array. The integer will be placed inside of an array, which will be sent to the outlet.
			 
Arguments:
value
      [int]
      




float




				Convert a floating-point number to an array. The floating-point number will be placed inside of an array, which will be sent to the outlet.
			 
Arguments:
value
      [float]
      




list




				Convert a list to an array. The contents of the list will be placed inside the array, which will be sent to the outlet.
			 
Arguments:
list-value
      [list]
      




anything




				Convert a list to an array. The contents of the list will be placed inside the array, which will be sent to the outlet.
			 
Arguments:
list-value
      [list]
      




append




				Append a value to the end of the current array. The array will not be output in response to this message. Use  bang  to force output.
			 
Arguments:
value
      [list]
      




array



				Make a copy of an array. The incoming array will be cloned and passed to the outlet.
			 



atoms



				Output the current array as a list out of the  array  objects middle outlet. The elements of the array will be output as a Max list.
			 



clear



				Clear the current array. The (now empty) array will not be output in response to this message. Use  bang  to force output.
			 



delete




				Delete an entry in the array. The indexed element will be removed from the array (indices are 0-based). The array will not be output in response to this message. Use  bang  to force output.
			 
Arguments:
index
      [int]
      




dictionary




				Wrap a dictionary in an array. The dictionary will be placed inside of an array, which will be sent to the outlet.
			 
Arguments:
dictionary-value
      [list]
      




get




				Get an array element. The element will be passed to the rightmost outlet in the form  get [index] [value] .
			 
Arguments:
index
      [int]
      




insert




				Insert a value into the current array. A new array element will be created at the index provided, with the supplied value. Any existing array elements will be shifted to make room for the new element. The array will not be output in response to this message. Use  bang  to force output.
			 
Arguments:

index
      [int]
      
value
      [list]
      





prepend




				Place a new entry at the start of the current array. The array will not be output in response to this message. Use  bang  to force output.
			 
Arguments:
value
      [list]
      




replace




				Replace a value in the current array at an existing index. The array will not be output in response to this message. Use  bang  to force output.
			 
Arguments:

index
      [int]
      
value
      [list]
      





reserve




				Reserve memory for a provided number of entries (doesn't resize array). This is rarely needed, as the object manages its own memory and grows as necessary. If the desired array size is known, and re-allocation of the array needs to be avoided, this message can be used to ensure that the array object is pre-allocated to the desired size.
			 
Arguments:
number-of-entries
      [int]
      




shrink



				Reduce memory usage to the current array object length. This is rarely needed. The array object does not automatically shrink if its contents are removed or cleared, this message can be used to ensure that the object doesn't use more resources than necessary.
			 



string




				Wrap a string in an array. The string will be placed inside of an array, which will be sent to the outlet.
			 
Arguments:
string-value
      [list]
      

See Also


Name
Description




dict


		Create and access dictionaries
	



string


		Create or duplicate a string object
	



array.change


		Detect array changes
	



array.compare


		Compare two arrays for equality
	



array.concat


		Concatenate two array objects
	



array.every


		Tests all elements in the array
	



array.filter


		Output elements of an array matching a condition
	



array.flatten


		Flatten a multi-dimensional array object to a single dimension
	



array.foreach


		Iterate the elements of an array
	



array.frombuffer


		Read audio buffer values into an array object
	



array.group


		Output an array when it reaches a certain size
	



array.index


		Output the indexed element of an array object
	



array.indexmap


		Reorder the elements of an array object based on an indexed map
	



array.indexof


		Search for the index of an array element
	



array.iter


		Iterate every element of an array object
	



array.join


		Convert an array object to a string object with an optional separator string
	



array.length


		Determine the length of an array object
	



array.map


		Perform an operation on every element of an array object, replacing elements in-place
	



array.pop


		Remove an element from the end of an array
	



array.push


		Add one or more elements to the end of an array
	



array.reduce


		Combine array elements based on a custom function
	



array.remove


		Remove a range of elements from an array object
	



array.reverse


		Reverse the order of elements in an array object
	



array.rotate


		Rotate the elements in any array object
	



array.routepass


		Route a complete input array object based on input matching
	



array.scramble


		Randomize the order of elements in an array object
	



array.sect


		Return the elements of an array object which intersect with another array object
	



array.shift


		Remove an element from the beginning of an array
	



array.slice


		Output a range of elements of an array object as a new array object
	



array.some


		Test the elements of an array object for a matching condition
	



array.sort


		Sort the elements of an array object according to a test
	



array.split


		Split an array object into two new array objects at a specified index
	



array.stream


		Make an array of a certain size
	



array.subarray


		Output a range of elements of an array object as a new array object
	



array.thin


		Remove duplicated entries from an array object
	



array.tobuffer


		Write array object values to an audio buffer
	



array.tolist


		Convert an array object to a list
	



array.tostring


		Convert an array object to a string object
	



array.tosymbol


		Convert an array object to a symbol
	



array.tuplewise


		Make an array of a certain size (counting iterations)
	



array.union


		Combine two arrays into a new array object containing non-duplicate entries of both arrays
	



array.unique


		Filtering duplicates and subtract arrays
	



array.unshift


		Add one or more elements to the beginning of an array
	



array.wrap


		Wrap an array inside of an array
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74