chooser - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesautopopulatebgcolorcollectiondepthenabledragfactorycontentfilekindfiltertextheaderheightheaderlabelitemskeynavigatemarginmultiselectparameter_enableparameter_mappableprefixprefix_modepreviewselectedclickselectioncolorshowdotfilesstripecolorstyletextcolortypesuseselectioncolorannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangintfloatanythingappendclearcountdeletedeselectdictionaryinsert(mouse)nextplayprevprogresssetsetnextsetprevsortstopSee AlsoPackage Maxchooser

		Display a scrolling list of selectable items
	 
Description

		The chooser object is similar to the umenu object, but it displays a scrolling list of selectable items rather than a pop-up menu.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes



autopopulate[int]: 0




				When the autopopulate attribute is enabled, the chooser object updates its item list whenever the prefix attribute is set with a path or the collection or filekind attributes are set with a database query. When autopopulate is disabled, changing the object's current folder or file query has no effect on the item list. However, if you enable autopopulate after changing the prefix, collection, or filekind attributes, the item list will immediately update.
			 




bgcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the background color of one of the chooser object's rows in RGBA format. The other row background color is set by the stripecolor attribute.
			 




collection[symbol]: 




				When the collection attribute is set to a collection name, the item list will be populated with the names of files contained in the named collection. You can define a collection of files using the File Browser.
			 Possible values:
                    ''
                  
                    'Lessons'
                  
                    'Plug-ins'
                  
                    'Sample Collection'
                  
                    'Vizzie Control'
                  
                    'Vizzie Effect'
                  
                    'Vizzie Generate'
                  
                    'Vizzie Input'
                  
                    'Vizzie Mix-Composite'
                  
                    'Vizzie Output'
                  
                    'Vizzie Transform'
                  
                    'Vizzie Utility'
                  




depth[int]: 0




				If the value of depth is 0, only the files contained in the folder specified by prefix will be added to the item list. If depth is greater than zero, then items in subfolders of the prefix folder will be added to the list, with the folder names(s) prepended to them. Items in subfolders up to the level specified by the depth attribute are included.
			 




enabledrag[int]: 1




				When the enabledrag attribute is enabled, you can drag a named file item in the list to any Max object that accepts it (such as a playlist~).
			 




factorycontent[int]: 0




				When the factorycontent attribute is enabled, files added to the chooser via the use of the collection or filekind query will include example files that ship with the Max application.
			 




filekind[symbol]: 




				The filekind attribute permits you to build a list of chooser items containing all files of a specified type currently present in Max's search path. In order for the filenames to appear, the autopopulate attribute must be enabled.
			 Possible values:
                    ''
                  
                    'application'
                  
                    'audiofile'
                  
                    'audioplugin'
                  
                    'bitmapandvectorfile'
                  
                    'clipping'
                  
                    'collective'
                  
                    'dict'
                  
                    'dictfile'
                  
                    'file'
                  
                    'gendsp'
                  
                    'genexpr'
                  
                    'genjit'
                  
                    'helpfile'
                  
                    'imagefile'
                  
                    'java'
                  
                    'javascript'
                  
                    'jitterdatafile'
                  
                    'json'
                  
                    'lesson'
                  
                    'livedevice'
                  
                    'llllfile'
                  
                    'lua'
                  
                    'material'
                  
                    'maxdatafile'
                  
                    'maxforlive'
                  
                    'maxpresets'
                  
                    'maxsnapshot'
                  
                    'midifile'
                  
                    'model'
                  
                    'moviefile'
                  
                    'object'
                  
                    'openexrfile'
                  
                    'pass'
                  
                    'patcher'
                  
                    'preset'
                  
                    'project'
                  
                    'prototype'
                  
                    'queryfile'
                  
                    'reffile'
                  
                    'rnbopat'
                  
                    'sdiffile'
                  
                    'shader'
                  
                    'snippetfile'
                  
                    'stringsfile'
                  
                    'stylesheet'
                  
                    'template'
                  
                    'textfile'
                  
                    'tutorial'
                  
                    'vectorimagefile'
                  
                    'video'
                  
                    'vignette'
                  
                    'webpage'
                  
                    'xmlfile'
                  




filtertext[symbol]: 




				The filtertext attribute defines a text filter that modifies the list populated by the prefix, collection, or filekind attributes. Only files that contain the text in filtertext will be included in the chooser object's list. When filtertext is empty, no filtering occurs.
			 




headerheight[int]: 0




				The headerheight attribute sets the height of the chooser object's header in pixels. By default the height is zero and the header is not shown.
			 




headerlabel[symbol]: 




				Header Label
			 




items[atom]




				The items attribute is used by the inspector to set the text of all the items in the list after you edit them. However, when changing this attribute with a message, you can only set the first item, so we recommend using a  clear  message followed by a series of  append  messages to set a list of multiple items.
			 




keynavigate[int]: 1




				The keynavigate attribute enables/disables letter key search navigation for chooser. When enabled (1) and the chooser object is selected, pressing a letter on your keyboard will cause chooser to select the item that begins with that letter. When disabled, key search navigation does not work. Disabling this attribute can be useful if you are using other key commands in your patch, such as with the key object.
			 




margin[int]: 0




				The margin attribute sets the left and right text margins used when drawing the item text. When the margin attribute is 0, the object draws the text using a default margin equal to 80% of the currently used font's height.
			 




multiselect[int]: 0




				When multiselect is enabled, the chooser object permits a user to select more than one item at a time by shift-clicking or command / control clicking. In addition, the multiselect attribute modifies how the chooser object sends selected items out its outlets. The first and third item index outlets will send the message  selectedindices  followed by a list of one or more indices for each of the selected items. The second and fourth item contents outlets send the message  selecteditems  followed by a list of one or more symbols with the contents of each of the selected items.
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters and allows for setting initial parameter values in the Max environment.
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				When parameter_mappable is enabled, the object will be available for mapping to keyboard or MIDI input using the Mappings feature.
			 




prefix[symbol]: 




				The prefix attribute specifies a file path that will be used to populate the list of items. A file will be included in the list if its name contains the text of the current value of the filtertext attribute and its type is included in the types specified by the types attribute. In addition the depth attribute controls whether files contained within any subfolders of the prefix folder are listed. In order for the contents of the folder designated by prefix set the item list, the autopopulate attribute must be enabled.
			 




prefix_mode[int]: 0




				The prefix_mode attribute controls how the chooser object outputs the path location of a chosen filename when using prefix to list the contents of a folder.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Concatenate'
                  
								The file name is combined with its containing folder name to create a single complete path name.
							 1 = 'Prepend'
                  
								The containing folder name is output as a separate symbol followed by the file name. This prefix mode cannot be used when multiselect is enabled.
							 2 = 'Ignore'
                  
								Only the file name is output.
							 




preview[int]: 0




				When the preview attribute is enabled, the chooser object shows a play button the to left of each item. If you connect the fifth outlet of chooser to an object that can play the type of file displayed in the list (sfplay~, jit.movie, or jit.playlist, clicking the play button next to an item will send commands to the connected object to begin playing the file specified by the item.
			 




selectedclick[int]: 0




				When selectedclick is enabled, clicking on an already selected item reports that item. Otherwise items are only reported when the selection changes.
			 




selectioncolor[4 floats]




				Sets the background color of the chooser object's currently selected item in RGBA format. A custom background color for the selected item is only displayed if the useselectioncolor attribute is enabled.
			 




showdotfiles[int]: 0




				Toggles the display of a any files whose names begin with a dot (period). The display of these files is normally supressed.
			 




stripecolor[4 floats]




				Sets the second (alternating) background row color in RGBA format. The other row background color is set by the bgcolor attribute.
			 




style[symbol]: 




				Sets the style to be used for the chooser object's visual display.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the text color of the chooser object in RGBA format.
			 




types[atom]




				The types attribute is used in conjunciton with the prefix attribute. It permits filtering files contained in the prefix folder according to one or more types. The types are four-character type codes as those used by the folder object such as AIFF, WAVE, TEXT, and JSON.
			 




useselectioncolor[int]: 0




				Toggles the use of the selectcolor attribute to define a custom selection color.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				Sends the contents of the currently selected item out the second outlet and the index of the currently selected out the left outlet.
			 



int




				Sets the currently selected item to the specified index, then sends that item's contents out the second outlet and its index out the left outlet.
			 
Arguments:
index
      [int]
      




float




				Sets the currently selected item to the specified index, then sends that item's contents out the second outlet and its index out the left outlet.
			 
Arguments:
index
      [float]
      




anything




				If the chooser object contains an item whose contents matches the message, that item will be selected. Then the item's contents will be sent out the second outlet and its index will be sent out the left outlet. If there is no match, the currently selected item is not changed and no output occurs.
			 
Arguments:
contents
      [list]
      




append




				The word  append , followed by any message, appends that message to the end of the chooser object's item list.
			 
Arguments:
message
      [list]
      




clear



				Removes all items
			 



count



				Sends the number of items currently in the item list out the right outlet, preceded by the word  count .
			 



delete




				The word  delete , followed by one or more item numbers, removes the numbered items from the item list.
			 
Arguments:
indices
      [list]
      




deselect



				The word  deselect  removes the visual reprepesentation of the selected item from the chooser object. It does not change the chooser object's current value, so a bang will still output the last selected item.
			 



dictionary




				The word  dictionary , followed by a dictionary name, will set the items for chooser. You can also attach the first outlet of a dict object to the first inlet of chooser. In order for this to work, the dictionary needs to include an "items" entry. For example, the following dictionary entry will populate chooser with the items "hank, carol, andreas, roland":
				 

				"items" : [ "hank", "carol", "andreas", "roland" ]
			 
Arguments:
dict-name
      [symbol]
      




insert




				The word  insert , followed by an index number and a message, inserts a new item to the list at the position specified by the index.
			 
Arguments:

index
      [int]
      
message
      [list]
      





(mouse)



				A single-click on an item selects the item, causing its contents to be sent out the second outlet and its index to be sent out the left outlet. A double-click on an item sends its contents out the fourth outlet and its item index out the third outlet.
			 



next



				The  next  message selects the next item in the list, then sends the selected item's contents out the second outlet and its index out the left outlet.
			 



play




				The word  play , followed by an index number, sends a command to an object (such as sfplay~ or jit.movie) connected to the fifth outlet to open and play the specified media file. The index argument selects the file to play.
			 
Arguments:
index
      [int]
      




prev



				The  prev  message selects the previous item in the list, then sends the selected item's contents out the second outlet and its index out the left outlet.
			 



progress




				When the preview attribute is on, the word  progress , followed by a float between 0.0 and 1.0, will update the display of the current preview progress circle.
			 
Arguments:
position
      [float]
      




set




				The word  set , followed by a number, sets the currently selected item to the specified index, but does not produce any output.
			 
Arguments:
index
      [int]
      




setnext



				Selects the item below the currently selected item in the list, but does not produce any output.
			 



setprev



				Selects the item above the currently selected item in the list, but does not produce any output.
			 



sort




				The word  sort  followed by a positive number, sorts the chooser object's items alphetically in ascending order (A-Z).  sort  followed by a negative number sorts the list of items alphabetically in descending order (Z - A).
			 
Arguments:
direction
      [int]
      




stop



				The word  stop  causes the current preview playback of any item to stop.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




umenu


		Pop-up menu
	



sfplay~


		Play audio file from disk
	



folder


		List the files in a folder
	



jit.playlist


		Play video files
	



playlist~


		Play sound files
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74