function - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesannotation_nameautosustainbgcolorclassic_curveclickaddclickmoveclicksustainconstrainpointchangescursordomaingridgridcolorgridstep_xgridstep_ylegendlinecolorlinethicknessmodemousemodemousereportoutputmodeparam_connectparameter_enableparameter_mappablepointalignpointsizerangeshadowalphashadowblendshadowproportionshadowreflectionpointshadowsignedsnap2gridstyletextcolorzoom_xzoom_yannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangintfloatlistclearclearfixclearsustaincolorcopydumpfixgetfixgetsustainlineoutlistdump(mouse)nextnthpastequantize_xquantize_ysetsetcurvesetdomainsetrangesustainxycOutputbangfloatlistSee AlsoPackage Maxfunction

		Breakpoint function editor
	 
Description

		Draw or store a set of x, y points as floating-point numbers. The output the entire function is useful as an input for line~. You can also get an interpolated y value for any x value.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes



annotation_name[symbol]: 




				Info View Title
			 




autosustain[int]: 0




				Sets the sustain mode for function. There are three possible values: 'Off', 'Next-to-Last Point', and 'Any Single Point'. The default is 0 (off).
			 Possible values:0 = 'Off'
                  
								Turn off sustain mode.
							 1 = 'Next-to-Last Point'
                  
								The next-to-last point in the function is automatically a sustain point. This setting requires that there are more than two points in the current function.
							 2 = 'Any Single Point'
                  
								Allows you to click on any point in the function to make it a sustain point. If autosustain is on and there is already a different point that is a sustain point, that other point will be turned off.
							 




bgcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the display color for the background in RGBA format.
			 




classic_curve[int]




				When enabled, curves are drawn using a legacy formula; when disabled, curves are drawn in manner that more closely resembles the output of the curve~ object typically controlled by function.
			 




clickadd[int]: 1




				Toggles a user's ability to create new breakpoints by clicking and dragging with the mouse. This feature is enabled by default.
			 




clickmove[int]: 1




				Toggles a user's ability to move existing breakpoints by dragging them with the mouse. This feature is enabled by default.
			 




clicksustain[int]: 2




				The clicksustain attribute controls how you can specify sustain points with your mouse. There are three possible values: off, cmd/ctrl click, and double-click. The default value is 2 (double-click).
			 Possible values:0 = 'Off'
                  
								The ability to specify sustain points with your mouse is turned off.
							 1 = 'Cmd/Ctrl Click'
                  
								Specify sustain points by pressing Cmd/Ctrl and clicking with your mouse.
							 2 = 'Double-Click'
                  
								Specify sustain points by double-clicking with your mouse.
							 




constrainpointchanges[int]: 0




				When enabled, constrainpointchanges limits the X value of a breakpoint changed via a  list  message so that it remains between the X values of the previous and next breakpoints. For example, if constrainpointchanges is enabled and point 2 is at 300 and point 4 is at 800, point 3 will be constrained between 300 and 799.9 when changed via a three element list such as  3 500 1 .
			 




cursor[float]: -1.




				Sets the position of the cursor along the function object's X axis.
			 




domain[float]: 1000.




				Sets the maximum displayed X value.
			 




grid[int]: 0




				Sets the grid displayed behind the function
			 Possible values:0 = 'Off'
                   (
								No grid displayed
							 )1 = 'Horizontal'
                   (
								Horizontal grid displayed
							 )2 = 'Vertical'
                   (
								Vertical grid displayed
							 )3 = 'Horizontal and Vertical'
                   (
								Horizontal and vertical grid displayed
							 )




gridcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the grid color in RGBA format
			 




gridstep_x[float]: 100.




				Sets the horizontal grid spacing
			 




gridstep_y[float]: 0.1




				Sets the vertical spacing
			 




legend[int]: 1




				Toggles the numerical display when a point is highlighted or updated
			 




linecolor[4 floats]




				Sets the display color for line segments in RGBA format
			 




linethickness[float]: 1.




				Sets the width of lines drawn between points
			 




mode[int]: 0




				Sets whether the function includes curve information. This changes both the function display and output format. When curve information is not included, the format of the second outlet is compatible with the line and line~ objects. When curve information is included, the output is compatible with the curve~ object.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Linear'
                   (
								Linear mode
							 )
								No curve information is included or displayed
							 1 = 'Curve'
                   (
								Curve mode
							 )
								Curve information is included; the curvature of line segments can be changed with the  setcurve  message or by option- (alt-) dragging on a segment.
							 




mousemode[int]: 0




				The mousemode attribute determines the behavior when moving a point by dragging.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Free'
                  1 = 'Shift'
                  




mousereport[int]: 0




				When enabled, the third outlet sends a three item list containing the current cursor position as well as the index of the current point under cursor (or -1 if the cursor is not over a point). Output occurs when the cursor is over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




outputmode[int]: 0




				When enabled, the list sent out the second outlet includes the X coordinate of the first point of the function. By default outputmode is disabled for compatibility with the line~ and curve~ objects that expect a list that starts with the initial Y (target) value.
			 




param_connect[symbol]: 




				Establishes a two-way connection between the object and a parameter of a compatible object with parameters such as gen~ or jit.gl.slab. The object can be used to change the value of the parameter and will update if the parameter value changes. The easiest way to set param_connect is with the attribute's menu in the inspector or the Connect submenu of the Object Action menu. The menu displays all available parameters of compatible objects.
				 

				Setting the param_connect attribute with a message requires the target parameter's path, which is the host object's scriping name followed by two colons and the parameter name. For example, for a gen~ object with scripting name  gen~_AB , the path of the  freq  parameter would be  gen~_AB::freq . You can set a value for the param_connect before the host object or parameter exists, and the object will connect to the parameter once it exists. Refer to the user guide entry for param_connect for more details.
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters and setting initial parameter values in Max.
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				When parameter_mappable is enabled, the object will be available for mapping to keyboard or MIDI input using the Mappings feature. (default = 1).
			 




pointalign[float]: 0.




				The pointalign attribute overrides the pointsize attribute for the purpose of controlling the location of points relative to the function's bounding box. Values range from 0 (no override, positioning is based on the pointsize) to 20 (where the function's points will be centered within a circle with a radius of 20 pixels).
			 




pointsize[float]: 2.5




				Sets the radius size for all points in function. This value influences the position of all points in addition to their size, so that large points are not cut off. The pointsize ranges from 1 to 20.
			 




range[2 floats]: 0. 1.




				Sets the minimum and maximum display ranges for Y values.
			 




shadowalpha[float]: 0.




				The shadowalpha attribute sets the opacity of the gradient shadow underneath the line representing the function. At 0 (the default), the gradient is invisible; at 1 it is completely opaque. shadowalpha must be non-zero for the other shadow drawing attributes to have an effect on the object's appearance.
			 




shadowblend[float]: 0.1




				Sets the amount of black blended with the object's pointcolor to create the shadow. Values of shadowblend closer to 0 will be darker; values closer to 1 will be lighter.
			 




shadowproportion[float]: 0.




				Sets the vertical mid point within the shadow gradient. 0 is at the bottom, 1 is at the top.
			 




shadowreflectionpoint[float]: 0.




				When shadowsigned is enabled, shadowreflectionpoint determines the point where the shadow is divided and reflects symmetrcially in the vertical dimension. 0 is at the bottom (with no reflection); 1 is at the top.
			 




shadowsigned[int]: 0




				When enabled, the shadow can reflect around a point (shadowreflectionpoint) to create a mirrored effect appropriate when the range of function includes negative values.
			 




snap2grid[int]: 0




				Determines whether points are constrained to grid values when they are added or moved. The behavior of snap2grid is independent of the grid visibility set with the  grid  attribute.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Off'
                   (
								Off
							 )
								No grid snapping will occur
							 1 = 'Horizontal'
                   (
								Horizontal Only
							 )
								Grid snapping will occur only in the horizontal dimension
							 2 = 'Vertical'
                   (
								Vertical Only
							 )
								Grid snapping will occur only in the vertical dimension
							 3 = 'Horizontal and Vertical'
                   (
								Both Horizontal and Vertical
							 )
								Grid snapping will occur in both the horizontal and vertical dimensions
							 




style[symbol]: 

>= 7.0.0


				Sets the style to be applied to the object. Styles can be set using the Format Palette.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the display color for text in RGBA format.
			 




zoom_x[2 floats]: 0. 1.




				Sets the horizontal zoom for the function object's display. Zoom values are set using a pair of floating point values in the range 0.0 - 1.0.
			 




zoom_y[2 floats]: 0. 1.




				Sets the vertical zoom for the function object's display. Zoom values are set using a pair of floating point values in the range 0.0 - 1.0.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				Triggers a list output of the current breakpoints from the middle-left outlet formatted for use by the line~ object. As an example, if the function contained breakpoints at X = 1, Y = 0; X = 10, Y = 1; and X = 20, Y = 0, the output would be  0, 1 9 0 10 . If the optional output mode is enabled, the output would be  0 0 1 9 0 10 .				 

				If there are any sustain points in the function,  bang  outputs a list of all the points up to the sustain point. Additional points in the function, up to a subsequent sustain point or the end point, whichever applies, can be output by sending the next message. See the description of the  next  and  sustain  messages for additional information.
			 



int




				The value is taken as an X value and outputs a corresponding Y value out the left outlet. The Y value is produced by linear floating-point interpolation of the function. If the X value lies outside the first or last breakpoint, the Y value is  0 .
			 
Arguments:
x-value
      [int]
      




float




				The value is taken as an X value and outputs a corresponding Y value out the left outlet. The Y value is produced by linear floating-point interpolation of the function. If the X value lies outside the first or last breakpoint, the Y value is  0 .
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




list




				If the list contains two values, a new point is added to the function. The first value is X, the second is Y.
				 

				If the list contains three values, an existing point in the function is modified. The first value is the index (starting at 0) of a breakpoint to modify, the second is the new X value for the breakpoint, and the third is the new Y value for the breakpoint. (If the index number in the list refers to a breakpoint that does not exist, the message is ignored.)
				 

				If the list contains four values and the mode attribute is set to 1 (curve), the third value is the curve amount, with values greater than 0 resulting an exponential curve, and values less than 0 resulting in a logarithmic curve.
			 
Arguments:

x-value
      [number]
      
y-value
      [number]
      
curve
      [number]
      





clear




				The word  clear  by itself erases all existing breakpoints. The word  clear  can also be followed by one or more breakpoint indices (starting at 0) to clear selected breakpoints.
			 
Arguments:
indices
      [list]
      




clearfix



				The word  clearfix  clears all fix states (sets them to 0).
			 



clearsustain



				The word  clearsustain  clears all sustain states (sets them to 0).
			 



color
>= 7.0.0



				The  color  message sets a color with an index from 0 to 15 for breakpoints and lines against a light background. It is no longer supported.
			 
Arguments:
color index
      [int]
      




copy



				The  copy  message copies all of the current function points to the clipboard so that they can be pasted into another function object.
			 



dump




				Outputs a series of multiple element lists describing each break point out the function object's third outlet. Each list contains the breakpoints X and Y values, followed by the curve value, if present.  An optional symbol argument can be used to specify a receive objects as a destination.
			 
Arguments:
receive-name
      [symbol]
      




fix




				The word  fix , followed by a number specifying the index of a point and 0 or 1, prevents the user from changing the point if the second number is 1, and allows the user to change the point if the second number is 0. By default, points are moveable unless clickmove 0 has been sent to disable moving of all points.
			 
Arguments:

index
      [number]
      
flag
      [int]
      





getfix




				The word  getfix . with no arguments, will cause the function object to send a list all fix points out the object's third outlet. If an index is provided as an argument, the fix state for that point will be output.
			 
Arguments:
point-indices
      [list]
      




getsustain




				The word  getsustain . with no arguments, will cause the function object to send a list all sustain points out the object's third outlet. If an index is provided as an argument, the sustain state for that point will be output.
			 
Arguments:
point-indices
      [list]
      




lineout



				The word  lineout  followed by either 0, 1, or no argument is equivalent to the  bang  message.
			 



listdump




				Outputs a single list which contains all X and Y values for each of the breakpoints out the function object's third outlet. An optional symbol argument can be used to specify a receive object as a destination.
			 
Arguments:
receive-name
      [symbol]
      




(mouse)



				You can use the mouse to add or edit breakpoints.
				 

						Clicking on empty space in the function adds a breakpoint. You can begin to move it immediately by dragging. Adding breakpoints can be disabled with the clickadd attribute.
					 

						Dragging on an existing breakpoint moves the breakpoint. Modifying breakpoints can be disabled with the clickmove attribute.
					 

						Shift-clicking on a breakpoint deletes it.
					 

						Command- (Mac OS) or control-clicking (Windows) on a breakpoint toggles the sustain property of the point. Sustain point click behavior can be set with the clicksustain attribute.
					 

						If the mode attribute has been set to Curve, option- (alt- on Windows) dragging on a line segment modifies the curvature of that segment.
					 





next



				The  next  message sends a list out the second outlet that continues from the sustain point where the output of the last bang or next message ended. For instance, if the function contained breakpoints at (a) X = 1, Y = 0; (b) X = 10, Y = 1; and (c) X = 20, Y = 0, and point b was a sustain point, a  bang  message would output  0, 1 9  and a subsequent  next  message would output  1, 0 10.  After a  next  message reaches the end point, a subsequent  next  message is equivalent to a  bang  message.  next  is also equivalent to a  bang  when no  bang  has been sent that reached a sustain point, or when a function contains no sustain points.
			 



nth




				The word  nth , followed by a number, uses the number as the index (starting at 0) of a breakpoint, and outputs the Y value of the breakpoint out the left outlet. If no breakpoint with the specified index exists, no output occurs.
			 
Arguments:
index
      [int]
      




paste



				The  paste  message pastes all of the points of a previously copied function into a function object.
			 



quantize_x



				This message will cause all of the points to automatically snap to the horizontal grid as defined by the  gridstep_x  attribute.
			 



quantize_y



				This message will cause all of the points to automatically snap to the vertical grid as defined by the  gridstep_y  attribute.
			 



set




				Given the number of points already defined within function 's graphic editor, a corresponding list of x-y-coordinate pairs will set the position of each point.
			 
Arguments:
x-y-coordinate-pairs
      [list]
      




setcurve




				The word  setcurve , followed by an integer that specifies the index of a function point (numbered from 1) and a floating point value that specifies a curve, will create a curved line segment between the specified point and the next point.
				 

				Curve factor values from 0 to 1.0 produce an "exponential" curve when increasing in value and values from -1.0 to 0 produce a "logarithmic" curve. The closer to 0 the curve parameter is, the closer the curve is to a straight line, and the farther away the parameter is from 0, the steeper the curve. The  mode  attribute must be set to 1 (curve mode) for this message to be effective.
			 
Arguments:

index
      [int]
      
curve-factor
      [float]
      





setdomain




				The word  setdomain , followed by a  float  or  int  value, sets the maximum displayed X value, then modifies the X values of all breakpoints so that they remain in the same place given the new domain.
			 
Arguments:
maximum
      [float]
      




setrange




				The word  setrange , followed by two  float  or  int  values, sets the minimum and maximum display range for Y values, then modifies the Y values of all breakpoints so that they remain in the same place given the new range.
			 
Arguments:

minimum
      [number]
      
maximum
      [number]
      





sustain




				The word  sustain , followed by number specifying the index of a point and zero or one, turns that point into a sustain point if the second number is 1, or into a regular point if the second number is 0. By default, points are regular (non-sustain). The behavior of sustain points is discussed in the description of the  bang  message above. Command-clicking on Macintosh or Control-clicking on Windows also toggle the sustain property of a point.
			 
Arguments:

index
      [int]
      
flag
      [int]
      





xyc




				The word  xyc , followed by an two numbers that specifies X and Y values and a floating point number that specifies a curve factor, will add a new point with curve information to the function.
				 

				Curve factor values from 0 to 1.0 produce an "exponential" curve when increasing in value and values from -1.0 to 0 produce a "logarithmic" curve. The closer to 0 the curve parameter is, the closer the curve is to a straight line, and the farther away the parameter is from 0, the steeper the curve. The  mode  attribute must be set to 1 (curve mode) for this message to be effective.
			 
Arguments:

x-value
      [number]
      
y-value
      [number]
      
curve-factor
      [float]
      


Output

bang

				Out right outlet: When a mouse editing operation is completed, a  bang  is sent out.
			 


float

				Out left outlet: The interpolated Y value is sent out in response to a  float  or  int  X value received in the inlet; or a stored Y value is sent out in response to an  nth  message.
			 


list

				Out middle-left outlet: When  bang  is received, a list containing information about all stored values will be sent out the outlet. This format is intended for input to the line~ object.
				 

				If the function object is in linear mode (set via the  mode  attribute), a  float  is sent out for the first stored Y value, followed by a  list  containing pairs of numbers indicating each subsequent stored Y value and its transition time (the difference between X and the previous X). If the function object is in linear mode (set via the  mode  attribute), a  float  is sent out for the first stored Y value, followed by a  list  containing pairs of numbers indicating each subsequent stored Y value and its transition time (the difference between X and the previous X).
				 

				If the function object is in curve mode (set via the  mode  attribute), a  float  is sent out for the first stored Y value, followed by a  list  containing triplets of numbers indicating each subsequent stored Y value, its transition time (the difference between X and the previous X), and a curve factor value (see the  setcurve  message listing).
				 

				Out third outlet: If the function object is in linear mode (set via the  mode  attribute), a series of two-item lists containing the X and Y values of each of the function object's breakpoints is sent out when a  dump  message is received.
				 

				If the function object is in curve mode (set via the  mode  attribute), a series of three-item lists containing the X and Y values and a curve factor of each of the function object's breakpoints is sent out when a  dump  message is received.
			 
See Also


Name
Description



line


		Generate timed ramp
	


ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74