text - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsfilenameAttributesprecisionstringoutannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameMessagesintfloatlistanythingclearcr(mouse)dumpfiletypelineopenqueryreadsettitlesymbolt_symboltabwclosewriteOutputbangintsymbolSee AlsoPackage Maxtext

		Format messages as a text file
	 
Description

		Collects and formats incoming messages as text to be output as lines of text.
	 
Arguments



filename[symbol]

optional


				Names a text file to be read in when the object is loaded.
			 
Attributes



precision[int]




				The number of decimal places for converted floating point values.
			 




stringout[int]




				Output Lines As String Object
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 


Messages


int




				Stores the integer within text.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      




float




				Stores the float within text.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




list




				Stores the list within text.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [list]
      




anything




				The message is stored in the text object, placed after any previously stored messages, and is followed by a space.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [list]
      




clear



				Erases the contents of text.
			 



cr



				Puts a carriage return at the end of the contents of text, to start a new line. If the last character in text is a space, the carriage return replaces that space.
			 



(mouse)



				Double-clicking with the mouse on the text object (when the patcher window is locked) opens an editing window in which the contents of text can be viewed and edited. The text object ignores messages to change its text while the editing window is open. Unlike the capture object, changes made in the editing window of text actually alter the contents of the object.
			 



dump



				The word  dump  causes text to send its contents out of the object's left outlet.
			 



filetype




				The word  filetype , followed by a symbol, sets the file types which can be read and written into the text object. File types are specified using the standard four-letter filetype codes (e.g. filetype ffoo). The message  filetype  with no arguments restores the default file behavior -- either Max binary or text file formats. File types are mapped to filename extensions on Windows based on the messages to max contained in the file max-fileformats.txt in the init folder, which is loaded on startup. If you are defining your own filetype, you may want to include your own text file in the init folder in order to specify a mapping between an extension and your four-letter type code.
			 
Arguments:
filetype-code (four letters)
      [symbol]
      




line




				The word  line , followed by a number, causes text to send out the contents of that line number (up to 256 characters) with the word  set  prepended (for setting the contents of a message box). Lines are numbered beginning with 1; any line number message less than 1 is converted to  line 1 . If a nonexistent line number is requested, nothing is sent out.
			 
Arguments:
index
      [int]
      




open



				Opens the object's text window for editing. Double-clicking on the text object in a locked patcher has the same effect. The text object ignores messages to change its text while the editing window is open. Unlike the capture object, changes made in the editing window of text actually alter the contents of the object. However, these changes will not be saved or communicated to the text object until the editing window is closed.
			 



query



				The word  query  sends a number that specifies the number of lines stored in the text object out the object's right outlet.
			 



read




				The word  read , followed by a symbol that specifies a filename, will read the contents of a text file. If no filename or pathname is specified, the  read  message will call up the standard Open Document dialog box, so that a text file can be specified. Use the filetype message to use a custom filetype with this object.
			 
Arguments:
filename
      [symbol]
      




settitle




				The word  settitle , followed by any word, sets the title of the text window. If you want more than one word to appear as the default text, you must enclose the words in double quotes or precede the spaces with a backslash ( \ ).
			 
Arguments:
window-name
      [symbol]
      




symbol




				The word  symbol , followed by any word, stores that word at the end of the contents of text. This is useful if you want to store a word that would otherwise be understood as a specific message by text. For example,  symbol clear  stores the word  clear , followed by a space, at the end of the contents of text, rather than erasing the contents.
			 
Arguments:
any symbol
      [symbol]
      




t_symbol




				Stores the symbol within text.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [symbol]
      




tab



				Puts a tab stop at the end of the contents of text. If the last character in text is a space, the tab stop replaces that space.
			 



wclose



				Closes the window associated with the text object.
			 



write




				The word  write , followed by a symbol that specifies a filename, will save the contents of text as a text file in the current default folder unless the file is specified with an absolute pathname. If no filename or pathname is specified, the  write  message will open up a standard Save As dialog box, so that the contents of text can be saved in a separate text file. Use the filetype message to use a custom filetype with this object.
				 

				Please note that changes to the text object will not be saved until the editing window is closed.
			 
Arguments:
filename
      [symbol]
      

Output

bang

				Out middle outlet: When a file has finished loading in response to a  read  message, a  bang  is sent out the middle outlet.
			 


int

				Out right outlet: In response to a  query  message, a number corresponding to the number of lines of text stored in the text object is sent out the right outlet.
			 


symbol

				Out left outlet: When a  line  message is received, the text of the specified line number is sent out preceded by the word  set . The message can be used to set the contents of a message box (or can be sent to any other object for which that particular  set  message is appropriate).
			 
See Also


Name
Description




External Text Editor

External Text Editor



capture


		Store values to view or edit
	



filein


		Read and access a file of binary data
	



itable


		Data table editor
	



spell


		Convert input to UTF-8 (Unicode) codes
	



sprintf


		Format a message of words and numbers
	



table


		Store and edit an array of numbers
	



textedit


		Enter text
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74