vdp - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameMessagesintchapterclearcmdcontrolfpsframenameplayrestrictscansearchsetskipskipstepstopOutputbangintintintSee AlsoPackage Maxvdp

		Control a videodisk player through a serial port
	 
Description

		The vdp object works with serially-controlled videodisk players (remember them?) that are compatible with the Pioneer 4200 or 8000 standard. Each command received by the vdp object sends a stream of numbers out the object's left outlet, intended to be connected to the serial object. The description of each command discusses what effect the command has on the player, not the exact character stream sent by vdp.		 

		Because videodisc players have relatively buffer-less serial interfaces, vdp places each command it receives in a queue, and sends it out only when the player has finished executing its most recent command. This "feature" may cause a delay between the time a command is sent to the vdp object and the time it is actually sent out the serial port.
		 

		Any message received in the right inlet will behave exactly as if it had been received in the left inlet, except that it will be put at the front of the queue, to be the very next command sent out to the player.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes

Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 


Messages


int




				In left inlet: Same as  play  from a specified frame number to the end of the disc.
				 

				In middle inlet: vdp expects responses from the player to be fed from the serial object into its middle inlet. When vdp sees "received" (the letter  R  followed by the return character) from the player, it sends the next command from its queue of pending commands. The example shows how to connect the vdp and serial objects together.
			 
Arguments:
frame-number
      [int]
      




chapter



				In left inlet: Asks the player what its current chapter number is and sends the response (received in the middle inlet) out the middle-right outlet.
			 



clear



				In left inlet: Removes any pending commands from the queue and resets the object.
			 



cmd




				In left inlet: The  cmd  message can be used to send "primitive" commands consisting of ASCII codes to the video disk player. Commands usually consist of two-letter codes preceded by numeric arguments. For example, searching to frame 5000 could be accomplished with the message cmd 5000 SE. Refer to the owner's manual of your player for details. The  cmd  message is particularly useful with the Pioneer 8000 player, since it has a number of special features not supported by the regular messages of the vdp object.
			 
Arguments:
ASCII-primitive-command-code
      [list]
      




control




				In left inlet: The word  control , followed by a number, tells the videodisc player to perform one of the following operations:
				 

				Number Operation
				 
				0 --------- Initialize and reset player
				 
				1 --------- Eject disk
				 
				2 --------- Audio off
				 
				3 --------- Audio 1 on
				 
				4 --------- Audio 2 on
				 
				5 --------- Stereo on
				 
				6 --------- Picture on
				 
				7 --------- Picture off
				 
				8 --------- Display frame numbers on
				 
				9 --------- Display frame numbers off
				 
				11 ------- Frame access mode
				 
				12 ------- Time access mode
				 
				13 ------- Chapter access mode
				 

Arguments:
action-ID
      [int]
      




fps




				In left inlet: Sets the playing speed. The  fps  message is followed by a number (frames per second) or an adjective. The following adjectives and numbers are equivalent (at least for the Pioneer 4200):
				 

				slowest 1
				 
				slower 10
				 
				slow 15
				 
				normal 30
				 
				fast 60
				 
				faster 90
				 
				fastest 120
			 
Arguments:
playback-speed (frames-per-second)
      [list]
      




frame



				In left inlet: Asks the player what its current frame number is and sends the response (received in the middle inlet) out the middle-right outlet.
			 



name



				In left inlet: Asks the player what the current name is and sends the response (received in the middle inlet) out the middle-right outlet.
			 



play




				In left inlet: With no arguments,  play  starts playing at the current speed from the current location to the end of the disk (or until the player receives another command). With one argument (a frame number),  play  searches to the specified frame number and begins playing to the end of the disk. With two arguments,  play  searches to the location specified by the first number and plays until the disc reaches the second frame number.
			 
Arguments:

first-frame
      [int]
      
last-frame
      [int]
      
speed
      [int]
      





restrict




				The word  restrict  followed by a starting frame-number and an ending frame-number will restrict all future messages to perform their actions restricted between the two frames.
			 
Arguments:

start-frame-number
      [int]
      
end-frame-number
      [int]
      





scan




				In left inlet: Initiates a "fast forward" or "rewind" operation.  scan forward  moves forward,  scan backward  moves backward.
			 
Arguments:
forward/backward
      [list]
      




search




				In left inlet: The first argument indicates a frame number to search to. The second, optional argument, if non-zero, instructs the player to keep the picture on while searching. If searching a great distance from the current location, the player may not be able to keep from blanking the screen. Once the player arrives at the desired frame, it will display the (still) image from that frame.
			 
Arguments:

start-frame-number
      [int]
      
display-flag (0 or non-zero)
      [int]
      





setskip




				In left inlet: Followed by a number, sets the number of frames to jump (forward or backward) from the current frame location when using the  skip  message.
			 
Arguments:
number-of-skipped-frames
      [int]
      




skip




				In left inlet: Followed by -1 , skips backward by a number of frames specified in the  setskip  message. Followed by  1 , skips forward by a number of frames specified in the  setskip  message.
			 
Arguments:
backward/forward-flag (-1 or 1)
      [int]
      




step




				In left inlet: Followed by -1 ,  step  pauses the player (if playing) and displays the previous frame. Followed by  1 ,  step  pauses the player (if playing) and displays the next frame.
			 
Arguments:
previous/next-step (-1 or 1)
      [int]
      




stop



				In left inlet: Pauses the player.
			 
Output

bang

				Out middle-left outlet: After sending a command out its left outlet, vdp begins "polling" the serial object for a response from the player by sending  bang  messages out this outlet approximately every 20 milliseconds, until vdp receives a "received" signal from the player in its right inlet. (A  bang  sent to a serial object causes any characters received in that serial port to be sent out the serial object's outlet.)
			 


int

				Out left outlet: A stream of characters, coded instructions to the videodisc player, for each command. These numbers are intended to be sent to the left inlet of a serial object.
			 


int

				Out middle-right outlet: Current frame number, received from the player in response to a  frame  message.
			 


int

				Out right outlet: Not implemented.
			 
See Also


Name
Description



serial


		Send and receive from a serial port
	


ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74