pictctrl - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesactiveannotation_nameclickedimageclickincrementclipdegreesframesimagemaskinactiveimagemodemultipliernameoffsetparam_connectparameter_enableparameter_mappablerangeratiosnapthresholdtrackcirculartrackhorizontaltrackingtrackverticalannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangintfloat(drag)link(mouse)picturereadreadanysetPicture File FormatSpecificationsOutputintSee AlsoPackage Maxpictctrl

		Picture-based control
	 
Description

		Creating buttons, switches, knobs, and other controls using images from a picture file for its appearance.
	 
Discussion

		Note: The pictctrl object object customarily uses images saved in Portable Network Graphics (.png) format. If you are using Max on Windows, we recommend that you install QuickTime and choose a complete install of all optional components to work with images other than PNG or PICT files.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes



active[int]: 1




				Toggles mouse control of the pictctrl object. The default is 1 (enabled). If a separate set of inactive images is present in the pictctrl object's picture file and if the inactive images attribute is set, the  active  message will also change the appearance of the control.
			 




annotation_name[symbol]: 




				Info View Title
			 




clickedimage[int]: 0




				Toggles the use of an alternate set of image frames in your picture file to give the dial a different appearance when the user clicks on it and drags the mouse pointer.  clickedimage 0  disables this feature.
			 




clickincrement[int]: 0




				Sets the output value to increment by 1 each time the object is clicked (Click to Increment mode). Any movement of the mouse after clicking is ignored. When the uppermost value is reached, the value returns to zero with the next click. All other mouse tracking modes are disabled.  clickincrement 0  disables Click to Increment mode.
			 




clip[int]: 1




				Causes pictctrl, while in dial-mode, to clip mouse-movement within the range of the dial. When followed by a 0, pictctrl will wrap around to the minimum when it surpasses the maximum value (within the range of the dial) and vice versa to the maximum when it surpasses the minimum value.
			 




degrees[int]: 270




				Specifies the degree-of-rotation pictctrl has while in dial-mode.
			 




frames[int]: 10




				Specifies the number of images (columns) in the picture file. The number of frames does not have to be the same as the range of the control; the pictctrl object will use the nearest image for any given value.
			 




imagemask[int]: 0




				When non-zero, indicates that your picture file has an image mask. The default is 0 (no image mask). Enabling imagemask enables checking for transparent parts of an image. If the threshold attribute is set to a value greater than zero and less than one, mouse clicks on transport portions of an image will be ignored by pictctrl.
			 




inactiveimage[int]: 0




				When non-zero, indicates that your picture file has an additional row of images for its inactive state. The default is 0 (no inactive state).
			 




mode[int]: 0




				Selects mode of operation for the pictctrl object.
				 
 Button  (the default)
				 
 Toggle  
 Dial mode 
Possible values:0 = 'Button'
                  1 = 'Toggle'
                  2 = 'Dial'
                  




multiplier[int]: 0




				Sets a multiplier value. When pictctrl is in dial mode, the object's value is multiplied by this number before being sent out the outlet. The multiplication happens before the addition of the Offset value. The default multiplier value is 1.
			 




name[symbol]: <default>




				Designates the graphics file that the pictctrl object will use will use for the control's button or dial file. By convention, the pictslider object uses images saved in Portable Network Graphics (.png) format. If you are using Max on Windows and want to to work with images other than PNG or PICT files, we recommend that you install QuickTime and choose a complete install of all optional components. The symbol used as a filename must either be the name of a file in Max's current search path, or an absolute pathname for the file (e.g. " MyDisk:/Documents/UI Pictures/CoolButton.png ").
			 




offset[atom_long]: 0




				Sets an offset value. When pictctrl is in dial mode, the offset value is added to the object's value before being sent out the outlet. The default offset value is 0.
			 




param_connect[symbol]: 




				Establishes a two-way connection between the object and a parameter of a compatible object with parameters such as gen~ or jit.gl.slab. The object can be used to change the value of the parameter and will update if the parameter value changes. The easiest way to set param_connect is with the attribute's menu in the inspector or the Connect submenu of the Object Action menu. The menu displays all available parameters of compatible objects.
				 

				Setting the param_connect attribute with a message requires the target parameter's path, which is the host object's scriping name followed by two colons and the parameter name. For example, for a gen~ object with scripting name  gen~_AB , the path of the  freq  parameter would be  gen~_AB::freq . You can set a value for the param_connect before the host object or parameter exists, and the object will connect to the parameter once it exists. Refer to the user guide entry for param_connect for more details.
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters and setting initial values of parameters in Max.
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				When parameter_mappable is enabled, the object will be available for mapping to keyboard or MIDI input using the Mappings feature.
			 




range[int]: 128




				Sets the range of the pictctrl object when it is in dial mode. The default value is 128.
			 




ratio[int]: 2




				Specifies how many pixels the mouse pointer must move before the value of the dial changes by one increment. If the pictctrl object is using Circular Tracking, the ratio message specifies how many degrees the cursor must move, relative to the center of the object, to increase the value by one.
			 




snap[int]: 0




				Sets pictctrl to snap to the image's original size. When followed by a 0, pictctrl will not snap to the image's original size.
			 




threshold[float]: 0.




				The threshold attribute is the alpha value above which an image pixel's alpha value needs to exceed for a mouse click to register. This permits using an image with transparency where the transparent portion of the image will not register mouse clicks. In order for this attribute to have any effect it should be set to a value greater than zero but less than one (0.5 is a suggested value). Setting threshold to a higher value permits ignoring semi-transparent portions of an image. To ignore clicks on transparent parts of an image, you will also need to use a PNG format image file and tell the pictctrl object your image has transparency by enabling the imagemask attribute.
			 




trackcircular[int]: 0




				Sets the pictctrl object to respond when you click on it and drag the mouse in a circular arc relative to the control's center (Circular Tracking mode). Moving the mouse clockwise increases the control's value, and moving it counterclockwise decreases its value. Enabling circular tracking disables all other tracking modes.  trackcircular 0  disables circular tracking.
			 




trackhorizontal[int]: 0




				Sets the pictctrl object to respond when you click on it and drag the mouse horizontally; moving the mouse to the right increases the object's value, and moving it to the left decreases the value. Enabling this mode of operation disables the Circular Tracking and Click to Increment modes (see the  clickincrement  and  trackcircular  messages).
			 




tracking[int]: 0




				Toggles live tracking. If live tracking is on, the pictctrl object will change its state if the mouse moves in and out of the rectangular border of the object with the mouse button held down.  tracking 0  disables live tracking
			 




trackvertical[int]: 0




				Sets the pictctrl object to respond when you click on it and drag the mouse vertically; moving the mouse up increases the object's value, and moving it down decreases the value. Enabling this mode of operation disables the Circular Tracking and Click to Increment modes (see the  clickincrement  and  trackcircular  messages).
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				Sends the current value of the pictctrl to the outlet.
			 



int




				Sets the value of the button or knob set by the control, and sends the current value out the outlet. In button and toggle mode, the value must be either 0 or 1. In dial mode, the range of values is determined by pictctrl object's Range attribute.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      




float




				Converted to  int .
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




(drag)



				When a image file is dragged from the Max File Browser to a pictctrl object, the image will be loaded.
			 



link




				The word  link , followed by a filename to a file which has already been loaded into the pictctrl object will link the object with that file.
			 
Arguments:
filename
      [symbol]
      




(mouse)



				Clicking on the pictctrl object and dragging sends the current value out the outlet. Additional behaviors depend on how the object is configured using messages or setting attributes using the Inspector.
			 



picture




				The word  picture  followed by the name of an image file will read that file into the pictctrl object. The word with no name following opens a standard file dialog for choosing an image file.
			 
Arguments:
imagefile-name
      [list]
      




read




				The word  read  followed by the name of an image file will read that file into the pictctrl object. The word with no name following opens a standard file dialog for choosing an image file.
			 
Arguments:
filename
      [list]
      




readany




				The word  readany  followed by the name of a file will read any type of file into the pictctrl object and attempt to interpret it as a picture.
			 
Arguments:
filename
      [list]
      




set




				The word  set , followed by a number, sets the value of the button or knob to that number, without triggering output.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      

Picture File Format

Specifications

				When you create a new pictctrl object in a patcher window, it has no associated picture file. Use the Open button in the Inspector to choose a picture file for the control. By convention, the pictctrl object uses images saved in Portable Network Graphics (.png) format. If you are using Max on Windows and want to to work with images other than PNG or PICT files, we recommend that you install QuickTime and choose a complete install of all optional components. The layout of the picture in the file varies depending on which mode of operation the pictctrl uses. All three modes require that the pictures be made up of a grid of images, in which all images have the same width and height.
				 

				Button mode has the simplest layout:
				 




				The first row of images is mandatory: these two images are used for the idle and clicked states (values zero and one, respectively) of the button. The next row of images, if present, is used for the control when it is in its inactive state. The next rows contain the masks for the top row of images, and the inactive images if present.
				 

				Toggle mode has a similar layout:
				 




				In this mode, the top two rows are mandatory. The first row of images are used when the control's value is zero, the next row when its value is one. The third row is optional; it is used for the control when it is in its inactive state. (Note that there are no "clicked" images for the inactive state, since when inactive, the control ignores mouse clicks.) The next rows contain masks for the images.
				 

				The Dial mode layout varies in size depending on how many image frames it has, which must be the same as the Image Frames parameter as set in the inspector:
				 




				The first row of images is mandatory: one image for each visually distinct state of the control. Dials need as many picts as you wish them to have visible states. Note that dials can receive and send a larger range of values than are represented by picts (e.g. your dial can have a range of 128 even if you only use eight pict frames to represent the range of the dial). The next row of images is optional, and is used when the user is clicking and dragging on the object to change its value. The next row is also optional; (Note that there are no "clicked" images for the inactive state, since when inactive, the control ignores mouse clicks.) The following rows contain masks for the images.
			 
Output

int

				The current value of the pictctrl object. In toggle and button modes this will be a 0 or a 1. In dial mode, this value is specified by the range, offset, and multiplier that you set in the Inspector window.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




dial


		Output numbers using an onscreen dial
	



kslider


		Output numbers from an onscreen keyboard
	



matrixctrl


		Matrix switch control
	



pictslider


		Picture-based slider control
	



rslider


		Display or change a range of numbers
	



slider


		Move a slider to output values
	



tab


		Tab control
	



textbutton


		Button with text
	



ubutton


		Transparent button
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74