line - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsinitialgrainAttributescompatmodefloatoutputgrainmaxpointsannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameMessagesintfloatlistclockpauseresumesetstopOutputbangintSee AlsoPackage Maxline

		Generate timed ramp
	 
Description

		Generate ramps and line segments from one value to another within a specified amount of time.
	 
Arguments



initial[number]

optional


				Sets the initial value to be stored in line and the output type for the object (floating-point or integer). If there is no argument, the initial value is  0  and the output type is  int .
			 




grain[number]

optional


				Sets an initial value for the grain: the time interval at which numbers are sent out. If the grain is not specified, line outputs a number every 20 milliseconds. The minimum grain allowed is 1 millisecond; any number less than 1 will be set to  20 .
			 
Attributes



compatmode[int]: 0




				Provides compatibility when importing patches created with versions 7.x and earlier of Max. Set compatmode to 1 to use legacy behavior.
			 




floatoutput[int]: 2




				Sets the floating-point output mode for the line object. The default is 2 (auto).
			 Possible values:0 = 'Off'
                   (
								Floating-Point Output off
							 )
								Does not output float values. If the  initial  argument is an integer, the floatoutput is set to off.
							 1 = 'On'
                   (
								Floating-Point Output on
							 )
								Outputs float values if specified in the  initial  argument.
							 2 = 'Auto'
                   (
								Floating-Point Output Auto
							 )
								Ouputs float values if distance is <= 1, line does not have a float argument, and step size is < 0.4.
							 




grain[float]: 20.




				Sets the grain value: the time interval at which numbers are sent out. The default is 20 milliseconds. The minimum grain allowed is 1 millisecond.
			 




maxpoints[int]: 129




				Sets the maximum number of user defined points. The default is 129. To allow a greater number of points, use the maxpoints attribute.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 


Messages


int




				In left inlet: The number is the target value, to be arrived at in the time specified by the number in the middle inlet. If no time has been specified since the last target value, the time is considered 0 and line immediately outputs the target value.
				 

				Note: the output type for the line object is set by using the first argument to the object (see Arguments).
				 

				In middle inlet: The number is the time, in milliseconds, in which to arrive at the target value.
				 

				In right inlet: The number is the interval (in milliseconds) at which intermediary numbers are regularly sent out.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      




float




				Performs the same function as  int  but with floats only if the object-argument is a float.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




list




				Use various list combinations to reach a target value.
				 
				In one list combination, the first number specifies a starting value,  followed by a comma and a number pair. The first number in the pair specifies the target value. The second number of the pair specifies the total amount of time (in milliseconds) in which line should reach the target value. In that amount of time, numbers are output regularly in a line from the currently stored value to the target value.
				 

				An example of this type of list is  0, 1 1000 0 1000 . In this example, line would go from the starting value of 0 to 1 in one second, then back down to 0 in one second. Once the first ramp has reached its target value, the next one starts. A subsequent  list ,  float , or  int  in the left inlet clears all ramps yet to be generated.
				 

				In another combination, the first number specifies a target value, not followed a comma, and the second number specifies a total amount of time (in milliseconds) in which line should reach the target value. The third number, which is optional, sets the grain. Grain will affect the time interval at which numbers are sent out. Once grains are set in a list, they will override the default until manually reset.
				 

				An example of this type of list is  1 1000 100 . In this example, line would go from the current value to 1 in a second, outputting a value every 100 milliseconds.
				 

				If the list has an even number of elements greater than three, each pair of elements is considered a destination-ramptime pair in a breakpoint function. If the list has an odd number of elements greater than three, the last element will be ignored.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [list]
      




clock




				The word  clock , followed by the name of an existing  setclock  object, sets the line object to be controlled by that  setclock  object rather than by Max's internal millisecond clock. The word  clock  by itself sets the line object back to using Max's regular millisecond clock.
			 
Arguments:
setclock object name
      [symbol]
      




pause



				In left inlet: Pauses the internal ramp but does not change the target value nor clear pending target-time pairs. line will continue outputting whatever value was its current value when the  pause  message was received, until either it receives a  resume  message or until a new ramp is input.
			 



resume



				In left inlet: Resumes the internal ramp and subsequent pending target-time pairs if the line object was paused as a result of the  pause  message.
			 



set




				In left inlet: The word  set , followed by a number, makes that number the new starting value from which to proceed to the next received target value. The  set  message also stops line if it is in the process of sending out numbers.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




stop



				In left inlet: Stops line from sending out numbers, until a new target value is received.
			 
Output

bang

				Out right outlet: When line has arrived at its target value,  bang  is sent out.
				 

				Note: In practice, the target value is arrived at in just under the amount of time specified (time minus grain).
			 


int

				Out left outlet: Numbers are sent out at regular intervals, describing a straight line toward a target value. If a new target value and time are specified before the line is completed, the new line starts from the most recent output value, in order to avoid discontinuities.
				 

				If a value is received in the left inlet without an accompanying time value, it is sent out immediately (time is considered 0).
			 
See Also


Name
Description




bline


		Generate ramps using bang 
	



funbuff


		Store pairs of numbers
	



line~


		Linear signal ramp generator
	



setclock


		Create and control an alternative clock
	



uzi


		Send many bang messages
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74