rslider - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesannotation_namebgcolorbordercolordrawlinefgcolorfloatoutputlistmodeminmultorientationparam_connectparameter_enableparameter_mappablesizestylethicknessannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangint(inlet1)float(inlet1)list(mouse)setsetminmaxOutputintSee AlsoPackage Maxrslider

		Display or change a range of numbers
	 
Description

		Set a value range from the lowest to highest value.
	 
Discussion

		In the right inlet, the number is taken as one end of the range. The left inlet sets the other end. Drawing the range with the mouse always outputs the lowest value out the left outlet and the highest out the right.
		 
		Shift-clicking extends the range instead of replacing it. Command-clicking (Macintosh) or Control-double-clicking (Windows) and dragging shifts the current range values up or down. Option-clicking (Macintosh) or Alt-clicking (Windows) and dragging up or down expands or shrinks the currently selected range. Command-double-clicking (Macintosh) or Control-double-clicking (Windows) selects the entire range.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes



annotation_name[symbol]: 




				Info View Title
			 




bgcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the background color of the rslider object in RGBA format.
			 




bordercolor[4 floats]




				Sets the border color of the rslider object in RGBA format.
			 




drawline[int]: 1




				Toggles the drawing of a center line on the rslider display. The default value is 1 (on).
			 




fgcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the range color of the rslider object in RGBA format.
			 




floatoutput[atom_long]: 0




				Toggles floating-point output from the slider object. The default is 0 (off).
			 




listmode[int]: 0




				Toggles the list output mode. When it is on, the rslider object will output the min and max values as a list out the left outlet. Otherwise, the values are sent out the right and left outlets. The default value is 0 (off).
			 




min[float]: 0.




				Sets value that will be added to the rslider object's lower value before it is sent out the outlet.
			 




mult[float]: 1.




				Sets a multiplier value. The rslider object's value will be multiplied by this number before it is sent out the outlet. The default value is 1.
			 




orientation[int]: 0




				Sets the rslider object to a horizontal or vertical data display.
				 
 Automatic : (the default) sets the display dependent on the size of the slider - longest side of the rectangle that describes the slider sets the orientation.
				 
 Horizontal  
 Vertical 
Possible values:0 = 'Automatic'
                  1 = 'Horizontal'
                  2 = 'Vertical'
                  




param_connect[symbol]: 




				Establishes a two-way connection between the object and a parameter of a compatible object with parameters such as gen~ or jit.gl.slab. The object can be used to change the value of the parameter and will update if the parameter value changes. The easiest way to set param_connect is with the attribute's menu in the inspector or the Connect submenu of the Object Action menu. The menu displays all available parameters of compatible objects.
				 

				Setting the param_connect attribute with a message requires the target parameter's path, which is the host object's scriping name followed by two colons and the parameter name. For example, for a gen~ object with scripting name  gen~_AB , the path of the  freq  parameter would be  gen~_AB::freq . You can set a value for the param_connect before the host object or parameter exists, and the object will connect to the parameter once it exists. Refer to the user guide entry for param_connect for more details.
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters and setting initial parameter values in Max.
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				When parameter_mappable is enabled, the object will be available for mapping to keyboard or MIDI input using the Mappings feature.
			 




size[float]: 128.




				Sets the total range of the rslider. The rslider will range from 0 to one less than the specified size. A  size  message smaller than 1 will be automatically set to 2. By default, the size of an rslider is  128 .
			 




style[symbol]: 

>= 7.0.0


				Sets the style to be applied to the object. Styles can be set using the Format Palette.
			 




thickness[float]: 80.




				Sets the thickness of the rslider knob. The default value is 80.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				In left inlet: Sends out the minimum and maximum values of the currently displayed range.
			 



int




				In left inlet: The number sets the minimum limit of a range displayed as a colored region on the rslider, and causes the minimum and maximum values of that range to be sent out. A number that exceeds the limits of the rslider itself will be limited to stay within the rslider.				 

				The minimum and maximum values can also be set (and sent out) by dragging with the mouse across a range in the rslider.
			 
Arguments:
minimum
      [int]
      




  (inlet1)




				In right inlet: The number is stored as the maximum limit of the range displayed in color on the rslider. A number that exceeds the limits of the rslider itself will be limited to stay within the rslider.				 

				The minimum and maximum values can also be set (and sent out) by dragging with the mouse across a range in the rslider.
			 
Arguments:
maximum
      [int]
      




float




				Converted to  int .
			 
Arguments:
minimum
      [float]
      




  (inlet1)




				In right inlet: The number is stored as the maximum limit of the range displayed in color on the rslider. A number that exceeds the limits of the rslider itself will be limited to stay within the rslider.				 

				The minimum and maximum values can also be set (and sent out) by dragging with the mouse across a range in the rslider.
			 
Arguments:
maximum
      [float]
      




list




				In left inlet: The first two numbers in the list are used to set the minimum and maximum values of the displayed range, and are sent out.
			 
Arguments:

minimum
      [int]
      
maximum
      [int]
      





(mouse)



				Clicking on the rslider object and dragging sets the minimum and maximum values and sends them out the object's outlets (or left outlet in list mode). or setting attributes.
			 



set




				In left inlet: The word  set , followed by two numbers, sets the minimum and maximum values of the currently displayed range, without sending them out the outlets.
			 
Arguments:

minimum
      [int]
      
maximum
      [int]
      





setminmax




				The word  setminmax , followed by two numbers, sets the low and high range values for the rslider object. The  floatoutput  attribute will automatically be set.
			 
Arguments:

low
      [int]
      
high
      [int]
      


Output

int

				The maximum value of the displayed range is sent out the right outlet, and the minimum value is sent out the left outlet. Output is triggered by a new minimum value (or a  bang ) received in the left inlet, or by clicking or dragging the mouse in the rslider.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




multislider


		Display data as sliders or a scrolling display
	



nslider


		Output numbers from a notation display
	



pictctrl


		Picture-based control
	



pictslider


		Picture-based slider control
	



slider


		Move a slider to output values
	



split


		Look for a range of numbers
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74