funbuff - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsfilenameAttributesannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameMessagesbangint(inlet1)floatclearcopycutdeletedumpembedfindgotointerpinterptabmaxminnextpasteprintreadselectsetundowriteOutputbangintSee AlsoPackage Maxfunbuff

		Store pairs of numbers
	 
Description

		Stores, manages, and recalls pairs of numbers.
	 
Arguments



filename[symbol]

optional


				The argument specifies the name of a file to be read into funbuff when the patch is loaded. Changes to the contents of one funbuff will not affect the contents of another funbuff object with the same name.
				 

				A file for funbuff can also be created using a text editor window, beginning the text with the word  funbuff , followed by a list of space-separated numbers which specify alternating x and y values. A funbuff that has been saved as a file can be viewed and edited as text by choosing Open as Text... from the File menu. Numbers in the form of text can be pasted in from other sources such as the editing window of a capture object, or even from another program such as a word processor.
			 
Attributes

Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 


Messages


bang



				In left inlet: Prints information in the Max Console concerning the current status of the funbuff object's contents: how many elements it contains, the minimum and maximum x and y values it contains, and its domain and range (the maximum minus the minimum, for the x and y axes respectively).
			 



int




				In left inlet: The number is the x value of an x,y pair. If a y value has been received in the right inlet, the two numbers are stored together in funbuff. Otherwise, the x value causes the corresponding y value stored in funbuff to be sent out the left outlet.
				 

				If there is no stored x value which matches the number received, funbuff uses the closest x value which is less than the number received, and sends out the corresponding y value.
			 
Arguments:
x-value
      [int]
      




  (inlet1)




				In right inlet: The number is a y value which will be paired with the next x value received in the left inlet, and stored in funbuff.
			 
Arguments:
y-value
      [int]
      




float




				In either inlet: Converted to  int .
			 
Arguments:
x or y value
      [float]
      




clear



				Erases the contents of funbuff.
			 



copy



				Copies the current selection (made by using the  select  message) into the global funbuff clipboard. The data stored on this clipboard can then be pasted into another funbuff object using the  paste  message.
			 



cut



				Copies the current selection (made by using the  select  message) into the global funbuff clipboard and deletes it from the funbuff object. The data stored on this clipboard can then be pasted into another funbuff object using the  paste  message.
			 



delete




				In left inlet: The word  delete , followed by two numbers, looks for such an x,y pair in funbuff, and deletes it if it exists. If  delete  is followed by only one number, only the x value is sought, and deleted if it is present.
			 
Arguments:

x-value
      [int]
      
y-value
      [int]
      





dump



				In left inlet: Sends all the stored pairs out the middle and left outlets in immediate succession. The y values are sent out the middle outlet, and the x values are sent out the left outlet, in alternation. The pairs are sent out in ascending order based on the x value.
			 



embed




				The word  embed , followed by a non-zero number, causes the funbuff data to be stored inside the patcher. The default setting is not to store the funbuff data inside the patcher.
			 
Arguments:
flag
      [int]
      




find




				The word  find , followed by a number, will output (out the left outlet) all x values (indexes) whose y value is equal to the number indicated.
			 
Arguments:
y-value
      [int]
      




goto




				The word  goto , followed by a number, sets a pointer to the x value (index) specified by the number. A subsequent  next  message will return the y value at the specified x.
			 
Arguments:
index
      [int]
      




interp




				In left inlet: The word  interp , followed by a number, uses that number as an x value, measures its position between its two neighboring x values in the funbuff, and then sends--out the left outlet--the y value that holds a corresponding position between the two neighboring y values. If the received number is already the x value in a stored x,y pair, the corresponding y value is sent out. If the received number exceeds the minimum or maximum x values stored in funbuff, the y value that's associated with the minimum or maximum x value is sent out. If the funbuff is empty,  0  is sent out.
			 
Arguments:
x-value
      [int]
      




interptab




				In left inlet: The word  interptab , followed by a number and the name of a named table object functions similarly to the  interp  message (mentioned above), except that it uses the data in the table as an interpolating function. This allows you to easily perform non-linear interpolation between consecutive values in a funbuff.
			 
Arguments:

value
      [int]
      
tablename
      [symbol]
      





max



				Sends the maximum y value currently stored in the funbuff out the left outlet.
			 



min



				Sends the minimum y value currently stored in the funbuff out the left outlet.
			 



next



				Finds the x value pointed to by the pointer (or, if the pointer points to a number not yet stored as an x value, to the next greater x value), and sends the corresponding y value out the left outlet. Also, funbuff calculates the difference between that x value and the value previously pointed to by the pointer, sends the difference out the middle outlet, and resets the  goto  pointer to the next greater x value.
			 



paste



				The word  paste  will copy the contents of the global funbuff clipboard into a funbuff object. The contents of the clipboard are set using the  select ,  copy  and  cut  messages. These messages provide a handy way of copying data between different funbuff objects in any open patchers.
			 



print



				Prints diagnostic information regarding funbuff 's current state in the Max Console.
			 



read




				Calls up the Open Document dialog box so that a file of x,y values can be read into funbuff. If the word  read  is followed by a symbol, Max looks for a file with that name (in the file search path) to load directly into the funbuff. The funbuff file format is described on the next page.
			 
Arguments:
filename
      [symbol]
      




select




				In left inlet: The word  select , followed by an two integers representing a starting index and a range will select a region of the funbuff which can be edited using the  cut ,  copy  and  paste  messages. For example  select 2 3  will select the part of a funbuff from index 2 through index 5.
			 
Arguments:
starting-index and range
      [list]
      




set




				In left inlet: The word  set , followed by one or more space-separated pairs of numbers, stores each pair as x,y pair.
			 
Arguments:
value-pair
      [list]
      




undo



				The  undo  message is used to undo the results of the previous  cut  or  paste  message.
			 



write




				Calls up the standard Save As dialog box, so that the contents of funbuff can be saved as a separate file. If the word  write  is followed by a symbol, the contents of the funbuff are saved immediately in a file, using the symbol as the filename.
			 
Arguments:
filename
      [symbol]
      

Output

bang

				Out right outlet: When the pointer reaches the end of a funbuff, no numbers are sent out in response to a  next  message, but a  bang  is sent out to notify that the end has been reached.
			 


int

				Out left outlet: When an x value is received in the left inlet, the corresponding y value is sent out. (Or, if there is no such x value yet stored in funbuff, the y value corresponding to the next lesser x value is sent out.) When the word  next  is received in the left inlet, funbuff sends out the y value that corresponds to the x value pointed to by its pointer (or, if there is no such x value, the y value of the next greater x value).
				 

				Out middle outlet: When the word  next  is received in its left inlet, funbuff sends out the difference between the x value pointed to by its pointer, and the x value previously pointed to, then resets the pointer to the next x value.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




bline


		Generate ramps using bang 
	



coll


		Store and edit a collection of data
	



funbuff


		Store pairs of numbers
	



itable


		Data table editor
	



line


		Generate timed ramp
	



table


		Store and edit an array of numbers
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74