flonum - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesbgcolorbordercolorcantchangehbgcolorhtextcolorhtricolormaximumminimummouseupnumdecimalplacesoutputonclickparameter_enabletextcolortriangletricolortriscaleannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangintfloatmaxmin(mouse)selectsetMenu ItemsColorOutputfloatintSee AlsoPackage Maxflonum

		Display and output a number
	 
Description

		Display, input, and output floating-point numbers in a number box.
	 
Discussion

		Note: The way floating-point numbers are stored on your computer means that not all numbers can be represented. This means that you will often see values such as 2.3 displayed as 2.29999. Clicking in the  Float Display Correction  checkbox in the Interface pane of the Max Preferences Window will make the Max application round numbers and truncates them at what it guesses is the least significant digit.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes



bgcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the number box object's displayed/unclicked background.
			 




bordercolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the number box object's outline.
			 




cantchange[int]: 0




				Toggles the ability to disallow changes with the mouse or the computer keyboard. The default is 0 (mouse/keyboard output active).
			 




hbgcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the RGBA values for the background of the number box when it is highlighted or being updated.
			 




htextcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the RGBA values for the number values displayed by the number box when it is highlighted or being updated.
			 




htricolor[4 floats]




				Sets the highlight color for the triangle inside the number box object that indicates that the contents are editable.
			 




maximum[atom]: <none>




				Sets the maximum value that can be displayed or sent out by the number box.
			 




minimum[atom]: <none>




				Sets the minimum value that can be displayed or sent out by the number box.
			 




mouseup[int]: 0




				Toggles the ability to send a number only when the mouse button is released, rather than continuously. The default is 0 (continuous display).
			 




numdecimalplaces[int]: 0




				Specifies the number of decimal places used when displaying a value.
			 




outputonclick[int]: 0




				Toggles outputting a value on mouse click.
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters and allows for setting initial parameter values in the Max environment.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the number box object's displayed/unclicked number values.
			 




triangle[int]: 1




				Toggles the drawing of a triangular arrow pointing to the number in the number box. The default is 1 (draw the triangle).
			 




tricolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the triangle inside the number box object that indicates that the contents are editable.
			 




triscale[float]: 1.




				Scales the size of the triangle drawn in the number box.
			 

Legacy

brgba

Typelist (3 ints)


 brgba  is a legacy RGB alias for the bgcolor RGBA attribute. See here for more information.
			 


frgba

Typelist (3 ints)


 frgba  is a legacy RGB alias for the textcolor RGBA attribute. See here for more information.
			 


rgba2

Typelist (3 ints)


 rgba2  is a legacy RGB alias for the htextcolor RGBA attribute. See here for more information.
			 


rgba3

Typelist (3 ints)


 rgba3  is a legacy RGB alias for the hbgcolor RGBA attribute. See here for more information.
			 


rgba4

Typelist (3 ints)


 rgba4  is a legacy RGB alias for the bordercolor RGBA attribute. See here for more information.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				Sends the currently displayed number out the outlet.
			 



int




				The number received in the inlet is stored and displayed in the number box and sent out the outlet.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      




float




				The number received in the inlet is stored and displayed in the number box and sent out the outlet.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




max




				The word  max , followed by a number, sets the maximum value that can be displayed or sent out by the number box. The word  max  by itself sets the maximum to None (removes a prior maximum value constraint).
			 
Arguments:
maximum-value
      [list]
      




min




				The word  min , followed by a number, sets the minimum value that can be displayed or sent out by the number box. The word  min  by itself sets the minimum to None (removes a prior minimum value constraint).
			 
Arguments:
minimum
      [list]
      




(mouse)



				Clicking and dragging up and down on the number box with the mouse (when the patcher window is locked) moves the displayed value up and down, and outputs the new values continuously.
				 
				In the float number box, dragging to the left of the decimal point changes the value in increments of 1. Dragging to the right of the decimal point changes the fractional part of the number in increments of 0.01.
				 
				When the active patcher window is locked, numbers can be entered into a number box by clicking on it with the mouse and typing in a number on the computer keyboard. Typing the Return or Enter keys on Macintosh or the Enter key on Windows, or clicking outside the number box, sends the number out the outlet.
			 



select



				The word  select  will make the number box active so that you can type numbers straight into it (click on any empty space in a locked patcher to deselect it).
			 



set




				The word  set , followed by a number, sets the stored and displayed value to that number without triggering output.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      

Menu Items

Color

				Choosing the  Color...  menu item from the  Object  menu when the object is selected opens a color picker, permitting adjustment to the appearance of the number box.
			 
Output

float

				The number displayed in the number box is sent out the outlet. Numbers received in the inlet or typed on the computer keyboard can exceed the limits of the number box, but the value that gets stored, displayed, and sent out will automatically be limited to the specified range.
			 


int

				The number displayed in the number box is sent out the outlet. Numbers received in the inlet or typed on the computer keyboard can exceed the limits of the number box, but the value that gets stored, displayed, and sent out will automatically be limited to the specified range.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




float


		Store a decimal number
	



int


		Store an integer value
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74