itable - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentstablenameAttributesannotation_nameautohintbgcolorembedlinecolornamenotenameparam_connectparameter_enableparameter_mappablepointcolorrangeselectioncolorsetresizesshadowalphashadowblendshadowproportionsignedsizestyletextcolortoolannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangint(inlet1)floatlistclearconstdumpfquantilegetbitsgotohandtoolinvlengthlinetoolloadmaxmin(mouse)nextnormalpenciltoolprevquantilereadreferselecttoolsendsetsetbitssumwriteSee AlsoPackage Maxitable

		Data table editor
	 
Description

		Provides visual display of the table contents in your patcher window.
	 
Arguments



tablename[symbol]

optional


				The argument gives a name to the itable. Max looks for a file of the same name to load. If two or more table or itable objects share the same names, they also share the same values.
			 
Attributes



annotation_name[symbol]: 




				Info View Title
			 




autohint[int]: 1




				Toggles display of the mouse position when positioned over the table.
			 




bgcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the table background color in RGBA format.
			 




embed[int]: 1




				Toggles the ability to embed the table and save its data as part of the main patch. The default behavior is 1 (save the subpatch).
			 




linecolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color used in the line tool mode in RGBA format. The  linecolor  attribute is mapped to the  elementcolor  style color.
			 




name[symbol]




				Specifies the name of a table. You can also specify the name of an itable object using an argument. Max looks for an itable object of the same name which has been saved as a separate file. If two or more table objects share the same names, they also share the same values.
				 

				For information about using named objects in Max for Live, click here.
			 




notename[int]: 0




				Toggles Y axis display using MIDI note names.
			 




param_connect[symbol]: 




				Establishes a two-way connection between the object and a parameter of a compatible object with parameters such as gen~ or jit.gl.slab. The object can be used to change the value of the parameter and will update if the parameter value changes. The easiest way to set param_connect is with the attribute's menu in the inspector or the Connect submenu of the Object Action menu. The menu displays all available parameters of compatible objects.
				 

				Setting the param_connect attribute with a message requires the target parameter's path, which is the host object's scriping name followed by two colons and the parameter name. For example, for a gen~ object with scripting name  gen~_AB , the path of the  freq  parameter would be  gen~_AB::freq . You can set a value for the param_connect before the host object or parameter exists, and the object will connect to the parameter once it exists. Refer to the user guide entry for param_connect for more details.
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters and setting initial parameter values in Max.
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				When parameter_mappable is enabled, the object will be available for mapping to keyboard or MIDI input using the Mappings feature.
			 




pointcolor[4 floats]




				Set the color of the data display points using the 0. - 1. RGBA format.
			 




range[int]




				Specifies the range of values which can be displayed on the y axis of the editing window. A newly created table has a range of 128, from 0 to 127.
			 




selectioncolor[4 floats]

>= 7.0.0


				Sets the selection color used in Select tool mode in RGBA format.
			 




setresizes[int]: 0




				set Message Resizes Table
			 




shadowalpha[float]: 0.




				Shadow Alpha
			 




shadowblend[float]: 0.




				Shadow Blend
			 




shadowproportion[float]: 0.




				Shadow Proportion
			 




signed[int]: 0




				Toggles the ability to store and display signed integer values. A newly created table with signed values has a range of 128, from -128 to 127.
			 




size[int]




				Specifies the number of values stored in the table. The default is 128 values, indexed with numbers from 0 to 127.
			 




style[symbol]: 

>= 7.0.0


				Sets the style to be applied to the object. Styles can be set using the Format Palette.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the table text color in RGBA format. The  textcolor  attribute is mapped to the  textcolor_inverse  style color.
			 




tool[int]: 0




				Sets the tool used when graphically interacting with the object. The options are:
				 

				0: Pencil tool
				 
				1: Line tool
				 
				2: Select tool
				 
				3: Move tool
			 Possible values:0 = 'Pencil'
                  1 = 'Select'
                  2 = 'Line'
                  


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				In left inlet: Same as a  quantile  message with a random number between 0 and 32,768 as an argument.
			 



int




				In left inlet: The number specifies an address in the itable. The value stored at that address is sent out the left outlet. However, if a value has been received in the right inlet, itable stores that value in the specified address, rather than sending out a number.
				 

				In right inlet: The number specifies a value to be stored in itable. The next address number received in the left inlet causes the value to be stored at that address.
			 
Arguments:
index
      [int]
      




  (inlet1)




				In right inlet: The number specifies a value to be stored in itable. The next address number received in the left inlet causes the value to be stored at that address.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      




float




				Converted to  int .
			 
Arguments:
index
      [float]
      




list




				In left inlet: The second number is stored in itable, at the address (index) specified by the first number.
			 
Arguments:

index
      [int]
      
value
      [int]
      





clear



				In left inlet: Sets all values in the table to 0.
			 



const




				In left inlet: The word  const , followed by a number, stores that number at all addresses in the table.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      




dump



				In left inlet: Sends all the numbers stored in the table out the left outlet in immediate succession, beginning with address 0.
			 



fquantile




				In left inlet: The word  fquantile , followed by a number between zero and one, multiplies the number by the sum of all the numbers in the table. Then, table sends out the address at which the sum of the all values up to that address is greater than or equal to the result.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




getbits




				Gets the value of one or more specific bits of a number stored in the table, and sends that value out the left outlet. The first argument is the address to query; the second argument is the starting bit location in the number stored at that address (the bit locations are numbered 0 to 31, from the least significant bit to the most significant bit); and the third argument specifies how many bits to the right of the starting bit location should be sent out. The specified bits are sent out the outlet as a single decimal integer.
			 
Arguments:

address
      [int]
      
start
      [int]
      
bits
      [int]
      





goto




				In left inlet: The word  goto , followed by a number, sets a pointer to the address specified by the number. The pointer is set at the beginning of the table initially.
			 
Arguments:
index
      [int]
      




handtool




				The word  handtool , followed by a zero or one, toggles setting the itable object to use the hand tool. It is equivalent to setting the  tool  attribute.
			 
Arguments:
flag
      [list]
      




inv




				In left inlet: The word  inv , followed by a number, finds the first value which is greater than or equal to that number, and sends the address of that value out the left outlet.
			 
Arguments:
value
      [int]
      




length



				Output the table size
			 



linetool




				The word  linetool , followed by a zero or one, toggles setting the itable object to use the line tool. It is equivalent to setting the  tool  attribute.
			 
Arguments:
flag
      [list]
      




load



				In left inlet: Puts the object in load mode. In load mode, every number received in the left inlet gets stored in the table, beginning at address 0 and continuing until the table is filled (or until the table is taken out of load mode by a  normal  message). If more numbers are received than will fit in the size of the table, excess numbers are ignored.
			 



max



				Retrieve the maximum stored value
			 



min



				Retrieve the minimum stored value
			 



(mouse)



				The values stored in table can be entered and edited graphically with the mouse.
			 



next



				In left inlet: Sends the value stored in the address pointed at by the  goto  pointer out the left outlet, then sets the pointer to the next address. If the pointer is currently at the last address in the itable object, it wraps around to the first address.
			 



normal



				In left inlet: Undoes a prior  load  message; takes the itable object out of load mode and reverts it to normal operation.
			 



penciltool




				The word  penciltool , followed by a zero or one, toggles setting the itable object to use the pencil tool. It is equivalent to setting the  tool  attribute.
			 
Arguments:
flag
      [list]
      




prev



				In left inlet: Causes the same output as the word  next , but the pointer is then decremented rather than incremented. If the pointer is currently at the first address in the itable object, it wraps around to the last address.
			 



quantile




				In left inlet: The word  quantile , followed by a number, multiplies the number by the sum of all the numbers in the itable object. This result is then divided by 2^15 (32,768). Then, table sends out the address at which the sum of all values up to that address is greater than or equal to the result.
			 
Arguments:
number
      [int]
      




read




				In left inlet: The word  read , followed by a name, opens and reads data values from a file in Text or Max binary format. Without an argument,  read  opens a standard Open Document dialog for choosing a file to read values from. If the file contains valid data, the entire contents of the existing table are replaced with the data.
			 
Arguments:
filename
      [symbol]
      




refer




				In left inlet: The word  refer , followed by the name of another table, sets the receiving itable object to read its data values from a named table object.
			 
Arguments:
name
      [symbol]
      




selecttool




				The word  selecttool , followed by a zero or one, toggles setting the itable object to use the select tool. It is equivalent to setting the  tool  attribute.
			 
Arguments:
flag
      [list]
      




send




				The word  send , followed by the name of a receive object, followed by an address number, sends the value stored at that address to all receive objects with that name, without sending the value out the itable object's outlet.
			 
Arguments:

receive-name
      [symbol]
      
address
      [int]
      





set




				In left inlet: The word  set , followed by a list of numbers, stores values in certain addresses. The first number after the word  set  specifies an address. The next number is the value to be stored in that address, and each number after that is stored in a successive address.
			 
Arguments:

start
      [int]
      
values
      [list]
      





setbits




				In left inlet: Changes the value of one or more specific bits of a number stored in the itable object. The word  setbits  is followed by four number arguments. The first argument is the address being referred to; the second argument is the starting bit location in the number stored at that address (the bit locations are numbered 0 to 31, from the least significant bit to the most significant bit); the third argument specifies how many bits to the right of the starting bit location should be modified, and the fourth argument is the value (stated in decimal or hexadecimal form) to which those bits should be set.
				 
				For example, the message  setbits 47 5 3 6  will look at address 47 in the itable object, start at bit location 5 (the sixth bit from the right), and replace the 3 bits starting at that location with the bits 110 (the binary equivalent of the decimal integer 6). Suppose that address 47 of the itable object stores the number 87. The binary form of 87 is 1  010  111, so replacing the 3 bits starting at bit location 5 with 110 would change the number to 1  110  111, which is the binary form of the decimal integer 119. The new number stored at address 47 in the itable object will therefore be 119.
			 
Arguments:

address
      [int]
      
start
      [int]
      
count
      [int]
      
value
      [int]
      





sum



				In left inlet: Sends the sum of all the values in the itable object out the left outlet.
			 



write



				In left inlet: Opens a standard save file dialog for choosing a name to write data values from the itable object. The file can be saved in Text or Max binary format.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




capture


		Store values to view or edit
	



coll


		Store and edit a collection of data
	



funbuff


		Store pairs of numbers
	



histo


		Create a histogram of numbers received
	



multislider


		Display data as sliders or a scrolling display
	



table


		Store and edit an array of numbers
	



text


		Format messages as a text file
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74