table~ - MSP Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesannotation_nameembedextendinmapinputmodeinterpnameoutscaleparameter_enableparameter_mappablerangesignedsizetriggermodeannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangintfloat(mouse)gotonextprevsignalSee AlsoPackage MSPtable~

		Signal Table Lookup
	 
Description

		Use table~ to remap incoming signal values with a table object.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes



annotation_name[symbol]: 




				Info View Title
			 




embed[int]: 1




				When the embed attribute is enabled, table values are saved in a patcher file and restored when it is reopened.
			 




extend[int]




				The extend attribute controls how table~ responds when an input index value (either signal or float) is less than zero or greater than the table size.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Zero'
                   (
								Output zero
							 )
								When extend is Zero (0), a zero signal is output when the index is outside the table bounds.
							 1 = 'Extend'
                   (
								Output lowest or highest table values
							 )
								When extend is set to Extend (1), table~ outputs the value at index 0 is output when the input index less than zero. It outputs the value at the highest table index is when the input index is greater than the table size.
							 2 = 'Wrap'
                   (
								Wrap index
							 )
								When extend is set to Wrap (2), table~ performs a modulo operation on the input index. Example: if the table size is 128 and the input is 130, the value at index 2 (130 mod 128) will be output.
							 3 = 'Ignore'
                   (
								Don't change output
							 )
								When extend is set to Ignore (3), any input index outside the table size is ignored and does not change the output.
							 




inmap[atom]




				The inmap attribute specifies a range of input samples to map to table indices. For instance if your input signal will be between 0 and 1, you can use an inmap of  0 1 , which will scale to the current size of the table. If the table changes size, the current input map adjusts automatically. To clear the current inmap, use a value of  none  or  0 0 .
			 




inputmode[int]




				The inputmode attribute determines how input values produce output values.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Lookup'
                   (
								Lookup
							 )
								When inputmode is set to Lookup (0), an incoming value is used as an index into the table.
							 1 = 'Increment Index'
                   (
								Increment Index
							 )
								When inputmode is set to Increment Index (1), a change event in the input signal (according to the setting of the triggermode attribute) causes the table to output the value at the next index.
							 2 = 'Random Distribution'
                   (
								Random Distribution
							 )
								When inputmode is set to Random Distribution (2), a change event in the input signal (according to the setting of the triggermode attribute) causes the table to output a value based on using the table data as a probability distribution. See the  bang  message for more details.
							 




interp[int]




				The interp attribute determines how input values between integer table indices produce output.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                   (
								Truncate Index
							 )
								When interp is set to None (0), an incoming value is truncated to its integer value before the lookup. No interpolation is performed.
							 1 = 'Linear'
                   (
								Linear Interpolation
							 )
								When interp is set to Linear (1), the output for any input value between two table indices is linearly interpolated between the table values at those two indices. For example, an input of 1.5 -- with table values of 5 at index 1 and 10 at index 2 -- produces an output of 7.5.
							 2 = 'Round'
                   (
								Round Index
							 )
								When interp is set to Round (2), an incoming value is rounded to the nearest integer value before the lookup. No interpolation is performed.
							 




name[symbol]




				The name attribute permits table data to be shared among multiple table objects (table~, table, or itable) with the same name. Changing the name switches the table used for lookup.
			 




outscale[atom]




				The outscale attribute specifies a range of output samples. The current range of the table will map to the specified range. For example, if you want the output of table~ to range from 0 - 1, set outscale to  0 1 . The output scaling adjusts automatically to keep output values in the specified range even if the table range changes. To clear the current outscale use a value of  none  or  0 0 .
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters.
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				When parameter_mappable is enabled, the object will be available for mapping to keyboard or MIDI input using the Mappings feature. (default = 1).
			 




range[int]




				Sets the range of table values. If the signed attribute is not enabled, the maximum table value is one less than the range. For example if the range is 128, table values range from 0 to 127. If signed is enabled, table values range from +/- the range value. For example if the range is 128, table values will be -128 to 128.
			 




signed[int]: 0




				If the signed attribute is enabled, table values range from +/- the range value. For example if the range is 128, table values will be -128 to 128. Changing the state of signed attribute does not modify table values.
			 




size[int]




				Sets the number of elements in the table. Indices range from 0 to one less than the size.
			 




triggermode[int]




				The triggermode attribute determines how input values are interpret as change events for triggering either an incremented index or random probability output according to the setting of the inputmode attribute. When inputmode is set to 0 (Lookup), the triggermode attribute has no effect and is disabled.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Zero to Non-Zero'
                   (
								Zero to Non-Zero
							 )
								When triggermode is set to Zero to Non-Zero (0), a non-zero sample value in the input that follows a zero sample value causes a change event to occur.
							 1 = 'Change'
                   (
								Change
							 )
								When triggermode is set to Change (1), a sample value in the input that differs from the previous value causes a change event to occur.
							 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				The  bang  message treats the table as a probability distribution and outputs a signal corresponding to a randomly chosen index within the table. A location in the table with a higher value is more likely to have its index selected.
			 



int



				See description for  float 




float



				When a signal is not connected to the inlet of table~, a number sets the index to use for table lookup output. If the number contains a fractional part and interp is set to Linear, the output will be interpolated between two table values. The number is also mapped to an index according to the current setting of the inmap attribute and the table value is scaled according to the outscale attribute.
			 



(mouse)



				Double-clicking on a table~ object opens a window where you can edit the values of the lookup table.
			 



goto



				The word  goto , followed by a table index, sets the next table index used by either the  prev  or  next  messages as they increment or decrement through the table. Unlike a  float  or  int ,  goto  itself does not change the output of the table~ object and its index is not modified by the inmap attribute.
			 



next



				When a signal is not connected to the inlet of table~, the  next  message adds one to the most recent table index set by the  int , or  float , then causes the table~ to output the value at this index as a signal. If a  goto  message immediately preceded  next , the value at the specified index is output. Note that  next  does not force the table index to an integer value, so it preserves any fractional part of the index caused by a previous  float  message. When  next  increments the index and it is larger than the table size, it wraps around to zero.
			 



prev



				When a signal is not connected to the inlet of table~, the  prev  message subtracts one from the most recent table index set by the  int , or  float , then causes the table~ to output the value at this index as a signal. If a  goto  message immediately preceded  prev , the value at the specified index is output. Note that  prev  does not force the table index to an integer value, so it preserves any fractional part of the index caused by a previous  float  message. When  prev  decrements the index and it becomes less than zero, it will wrap around to the end of the table.
			 



signal



				Incoming signal values are used as indices for table lookup.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




buffer~


		Store audio samples
	



index~


		Read from a buffer~ with no interpolation
	



itable


		Data table editor
	



lookup~


		Transfer function lookup table
	



table


		Store and edit an array of numbers
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74