makenote - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsvelocitydurationchannelAttributesdurationrepeatmodeannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameMessagesintfloatlistanythingclearclockstopOutputintSee AlsoPackage Maxmakenote

		Generate a note-on/note-off pair
	 
Description

		Outputs a MIDI note-on message paired with a velocity value followed by a note-off message after a specified amount of time. This allows for generative MIDI output without having to manage note-off generation.
	 
Discussion

		This object uses the Max time format syntax. The interval that the makenote object uses to specify the time between not-on and note-off can be either fixed or tempo-relative (it must be a single-valued). An additional third argument can be used to specify a MIDI output channel (the makenote object will then have four inputs and three outputs).
	 
Arguments



velocity[number]

optional


				Sets an initial velocity value (int or float) to be paired with incoming pitch numbers. If there is no argument, the initial velocity is  0 .
			 




duration[number]

optional


				Sets an initial note duration (time before a note-off is sent out), in any of Max's time units. A simple int or float will set the duration in milliseconds. If the second argument is not present, the note-off follows the note-on immediately.
			 




channel[number]

optional


				Sets an initial MIDI channel number. If a third argument is used, the makenote object will have an additional fourth inlet (which specifies MIDI channel number) and an additional third outlet (which specifies MIDI output channel).
			 
Attributes



duration[Time Value]: 0 ms




				The duration that makenote waits before a note-off message is sent out.
			 




repeatmode[int]




				Sets behavior when a note is retriggered. The modes are:
				 

				repeatmode 0 (default): There is no pre-specified behavior when when you repeat a pitch before the note-off for that pitch has been sent.
				 
				repeatmode 1: If a note is still playing when you retrigger it, the makenote object will send a note-off (velocity 0) message to stop the first note and then send a new note-on message.
				 
				repeatmode 2: If a note is still playing when you retrigger it, the makenote object will cancel the scheduled output of the first note - only the last played note will send note-off (velocity 0) message.
				 
				repeatmode 3: If a note is still playing when you retrigger it, the makenote object will reschedule the note-off output of the first note without triggering a new note-on message.
				 
				repeatmode 4: If a note is still playing when you retrigger it, the makenote object will ignore the retriggered note and leave the note-off time unaffected.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Poly'
                  1 = 'Re-trigger'
                  2 = 'Stop Last'
                  3 = 'Update Duration'
                  4 = 'Ignore'
                  


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 


Messages


int




				In first inlet: The number is treated as a pitch value for a MIDI note-on message. It is paired with a velocity value and the numbers are sent out the outlets. After a certain time, a note-off message (a note-on with a velocity of 0) is sent out for that pitch.
				 

				In second inlet: The number is stored as a velocity to be paired with pitch numbers received in the left inlet.
				 

				In third inlet: The number is stored as the duration that makenote waits before a note-off message is sent out.
				 
				In fourth inlet: The number specifies a MIDI output channel. The fourth inlet will only be present if the makenote object is initialized with three arguments.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      




float




				In first inlet: The number is treated as a pitch value for a MIDI note-on message. It is paired with a velocity value and the numbers are sent out the outlets. After a certain time, a note-off message (a note-on with a velocity of 0) is sent out for that pitch.
				 

				In second inlet: The number is stored as a velocity to be paired with pitch numbers received in the left inlet.
				 

				In third inlet: The number is stored as the duration that makenote waits before a note-off message is sent out.
				 
				In fourth inlet: The number specifies a MIDI output channel. The fourth inlet will only be present if the makenote object is initialized with three arguments.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




list




				In left inlet: The second number is treated as the velocity and is sent out the right outlet. The first number is treated as the pitch and is sent out the left outlet. A corresponding note-off message is sent out later.
				 
				If the makenote object is instantiated with three arguments, a four-item list can be used which contains an additional fourth element specifying the MIDI channel number, which is sent out the rightmost outlet of the object.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [list]
      




anything




				Performs the same function as  list .
			 
Arguments:
input
      [list]
      




clear



				Erases all notes currently held by makenote, without sending note-offs.
			 



clock




				The word  clock , followed by the name of an existing  setclock  object, sets the makenote object to be controlled by that  setclock  object rather than by Max's internal millisecond clock. The word  clock  by itself sets the makenote object back to using Max's regular millisecond clock.
			 
Arguments:
clock-name
      [symbol]
      




stop



				Causes makenote to send out immediate note-offs for all pitches it currently holds.
			 
Output

int

				Out left outlet: The number received in the left inlet is sent out immediately, paired with a velocity value out the other outlet. After a certain duration, the same number is sent out paired with a velocity of  0 .				 

				Out right outlet: The number in the middle inlet is sent out as a velocity value in conjunction with a pitch value out the left outlet. After a certain duration,  0  is sent out paired with the same pitch.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




flush


		Output MIDI note-offs for held notes
	



midiout


		Transmit raw MIDI data
	



noteout


		Transmit MIDI note messages
	



nslider


		Output numbers from a notation display
	



stripnote


		Filter out note-off messages
	



transport


		Control a clock
	



xnoteout


		Format MIDI note messages with release velocity
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74