jsui - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesannotation_nameborderfilenamejsargumentsnofsaaparam_connectparameter_enableparameter_mappabletemplateannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangintfloatlistanything(drag)autowatchcompiledelpropeditfontsizegetpropjsargsjsfileloadbang(mouse)opensetpropsizestatemessagewcloseOutputanythingSee AlsoPackage Maxjsui

		Javascript user interfaces and graphics (Legacy Engine)
	 
Description

		Provides an environment to make user interface elements using Javascript (ECMAScript 5). This provides all of the programming tools available in the js object, but also exposes the mgraphics and sketch drawing routines for visual output.
	 
Discussion

		The jsui object is a general purpose user interface object driven by javascript. There are a number of templates already built to use (some of which are shown below). While the patcher is in edit mode, you can ctrl-click (mac) or right-click (pc) to bring up the contextual menu which will let you view and edit the currently loaded javascript file, or select one of the template files from jsui-library. If the javascript file also has a help file associated with it (as do all of the template objects contained in this patch), the associated help file will be loaded instead of jsui.maxhelp. The inspector lets you set the javascript file, javascript arguments, size, border flag, and disable full scene anti-aliasing (fsaa).
		 

		At the present time, mouse position and object redrawing will only be reported correctly in the jsui object if the patching and Presentation mode sizes of the object are the same.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes



annotation_name[symbol]: 




				Info View Title
			 




border[int]: 1




				Toggles the drawing of a border around the jsui object. The default is 1 (draw border).
			 




filename[symbol]: none




				The word  filename , followed by a symbol that specifies a pathname, designates the Javascript file to be loaded.
			 




jsarguments[256 atoms]: 




				Specifies any arguments to be passed to the Javascript code contained in the jsui object.
			 




nofsaa[int]: 0




				Toggle full screen anti-aliasing
			 




param_connect[symbol]: 




				Establishes a two-way connection between the object and a parameter of a compatible object with parameters such as gen~ or jit.gl.slab. The object can be used to change the value of the parameter and will update if the parameter value changes. The easiest way to set param_connect is with the attribute's menu in the inspector or the Connect submenu of the Object Action menu. The menu displays all available parameters of compatible objects.
				 

				Setting the param_connect attribute with a message requires the target parameter's path, which is the host object's scriping name followed by two colons and the parameter name. For example, for a gen~ object with scripting name  gen~_AB , the path of the  freq  parameter would be  gen~_AB::freq . You can set a value for the param_connect before the host object or parameter exists, and the object will connect to the parameter once it exists. Refer to the user guide entry for param_connect for more details.
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters.
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				When parameter_mappable is enabled, the object will be available for mapping to keyboard or MIDI input using the Mappings feature.
			 




template[symbol]: jsui_default.js




				If no file is explictly loaded by the jsui object (via the filename attribute, for instance), the template file will be loaded into memory and evaluated, and can be used as the starting point for further development. The user will be prompted to save the template to a file when editing, or the external editor is opened.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				Invokes the function named bang if defined.
			 



int




				Invokes the function named msg_int if defined.
			 
Arguments:
user-defined
      [int]
      




float




				Invokes the function named msg_float if defined.
			 
Arguments:
user-defined
      [float]
      




list




				Performs the same as  anything .
			 
Arguments:
user-defined
      [list]
      




anything




				Invokes the function with the message name, assigning the message arguments to the arguments to the function. For example, if the object has a function named xyz defined, the message  xyz 1 2 3  would invoke the xyz function with arguments 1 2 and 3.
			 
Arguments:
user-defined
      [list]
      




(drag)



				When a file is dragged from the File Browser to a jsui object, the file is loaded and executed.
			 



autowatch




				The word  autowatch , followed by a 1, turns on file watching for the Javascript source file. When file watching is on, the file is recompiled automatically when it is modified. This allows you to use an external editor for your Javascript file. When you save the file, the jsui object will notice. autowatch 0 turns off file watching.
			 
Arguments:
flag
      [int]
      




compile




				Recompiles the current file. If followed by a symbol, will load, compile, and set the currently loaded Javascript file to be the file specified by the symbol argument.
			 
Arguments:
filename
      [symbol]
      




delprop




				The word  delprop , followed by a name, deletes the named property.
			 
Arguments:
property
      [symbol]
      




editfontsize




				Changes the font-size of the text used in the editing window which contains the object's Javascript source file.
			 
Arguments:
size
      [int]
      




getprop




				The word  getprop , followed by a name, outputs the value of the property name stored in the object out the left outlet.
			 
Arguments:
property
      [symbol]
      




jsargs




				Sets the current Javascript arguments to any following message arguments.
			 
Arguments:
arguments
      [list]
      




jsfile




				The word  jsfile , followed by a symbol , loads, compiles, and sets the currently loaded Javascript file to be the Javascript file specified by the symbol argument.
			 
Arguments:
filename
      [symbol]
      




loadbang



				Call the loadbang function
			 



(mouse)



				Double-clicking on a js object opens a text window where the object's Javascript source file can be edited. When the text window is saved, the text is compiled as the object's script.
			 



open



				Opens the text window where the object's Javascript source file can be edited.
			 



setprop




				The word  setprop , followed by name and one or more names or numbers, sets the named property to what follows the name. For example, after sending setprop  xyz 1 2 3  to a js object. the xyz property would have a value of the list 1 2 3.
			 
Arguments:
property and settings
      [list]
      




size




				The word  size , followed by two int arguments, sets the width and height of the jsui object.
			 
Arguments:

width
      [int]
      
height
      [int]
      





statemessage




				Allows for the testing of messages passed to functions within the Javascript source file.
			 
Arguments:
messages
      [list]
      




wclose



				Closes the text window where the object's Javascript source file is edited.
			 
Output

anything

				Numbers, lists, or symbols are sent out the jsui object's outlets when the Javascript code executing within the jsui object invokes the outlet function.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




JavaScript

JavaScript



Custom UI Objects

Custom UI Objects



js


		Execute Javascript (Legacy Engine)
	



jstrigger


		Execute Javascript instructions sequentially
	



mxj


		Execute Java in Max
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74