textedit - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesannotation_nameautoscrollbangmodebgcolorborderbordercolorclickmodekeymodelinesnosymquotesoutputmodeparam_connectparameter_enableparameter_mappablereadonlyroundedseparatorstyletabmodetextcolorvaluemodewordwrapannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangintfloatlist(mouse)(typing)(drag)appendcleardictionaryselectsetOutputsymbolsymbolsymbolSee AlsoPackage Maxtextedit

		Enter text
	 
Description

		Provides a user interface within a patcher which can collect typed-in text from the computer-keyboard.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes



annotation_name[symbol]: 




				Info View Title
			 




autoscroll[int]: 1




				Toggles autoscrolling in the text display area. The message  autoscroll 1  lets you scroll past the amount of text displayed in the textedit window when the number of lines is set to 1 and the word wrapping is disabled (see the  wordwrap  message) using either the cursor or by clicking and dragging in the textedit window. The default is 0 (autoscroll disabled).
			 




bangmode[int]: 0




				When bangmode is set to "Bang Outputs Typed Text" (0 = default) then the textedit object will output the text currently being typed when banged. When set to "Bang Outputs Entered Text" (1) then the textedit object will output the text previously entered (will wait until text being typed is completed before sending the new value).
			 Possible values:0 = 'Bang Outputs Typed Text'
                  1 = 'Bang Outputs Entered Text'
                  




bgcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the background color of the textedit object in RGBA format.
			 




border[float]: 2.




				Sets the size, in pixels, of the border of the textedit object. The default is 1.
			 




bordercolor[4 floats]




				Sets the border color of the textedit object in RGBA format. The  bordercolor  attribute is mapped to the  elementcolor  style color.
			 




clickmode[int]: 0




				Sets the way that the textedit object responds to mouse clicks in the text display area. The message  clickmode 0  will send an individual character clicked on out the right outlet of the textedit object. Setting the object with the message  clickmode 1  will send the word the user clicks on. The default is  0  (select characters).
			 Possible values:0 = 'Output Character'
                  1 = 'Output Word'
                  




keymode[int]: 0




				Sets the way that the textedit object responds to carriage returns while typing characters into its text display area. The message  keymode 0  allows for text input, and displays carriage returns normally. Setting the object with the message  keymode   1  causes the carriage return to output the entire contents of the current buffer. The default is  0 .
			 




lines[int]: 0




				Sets the number of lines in the textedit object display.
			 




nosymquotes[int]: 0




				Sets whether the textedit object displays quotation marks around a single symbol. Note that once the symbol is sent out of textedit, it will be expressed using quotes in Max. nosymquotes has no effect on contents which contain multiple elements ("foo bar bap" bep  will display the same with nosymquotes enabled and disabled).
			 




outputmode[int]: 0




				Sets whether the textedit object outputs its contents as a message (0) or as a single symbol (1). The message  outputmode 0  causes the output of the object to be sent out as messages. Setting the object with the message  outputmode 1  will output the buffer contents as a single symbol. The default is  0  (output as messages).
			 




param_connect[symbol]: 




				Establishes a two-way connection between the object and a parameter of a compatible object with parameters such as gen~ or jit.gl.slab. The object can be used to change the value of the parameter and will update if the parameter value changes. The easiest way to set param_connect is with the attribute's menu in the inspector or the Connect submenu of the Object Action menu. The menu displays all available parameters of compatible objects.
				 

				Setting the param_connect attribute with a message requires the target parameter's path, which is the host object's scriping name followed by two colons and the parameter name. For example, for a gen~ object with scripting name  gen~_AB , the path of the  freq  parameter would be  gen~_AB::freq . You can set a value for the param_connect before the host object or parameter exists, and the object will connect to the parameter once it exists. Refer to the user guide entry for param_connect for more details.
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters.
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				When parameter_mappable is enabled, the object will be available for mapping to keyboard or MIDI input using the Mappings feature.
			 




readonly[int]: 0




				Toggles the read only mode of the textedit object. The message  readonly 1  disables any user entry into the text box. Messages which operate on the current contents of the textedit buffer such as  clear ,  append , or  separator  are not affected by the  readonly  message. The default is  0  (readonly mode off).
			 




rounded[float]: 8.




				Sets the rounding radius, in pixels, for the corners of the textedit object.
			 




separator[symbol]: nothing




				Designates a symbol as a line separator. and treats it as a carriage return when the contents of the buffer are output. If the buffer contains the text "red green blue" and the object receives the message  separator green , the next  bang  received by textedit will output  red  (carriage return)  blue .
			 




style[symbol]: 

>= 7.0.0


				Sets the style to be applied to the object. Styles can be set using the Format Palette.
			 




tabmode[int]: 1




				Toggles the ability to cause the tab key to output the entire contents of the current buffer. The default is 1 (on).
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the text color in RGBA format. The  textcolor  attribute is mapped to the  textcolor_inverse  style color.
			 




valuemode[int]: 0




				When set to 0 (default), textedit will save/restore exactly what is typed into the object, and will output the text as a list of numbers and symbols, even if those symbols are a semicolon (;) or a comma (,). When set to 1, textedit will evaluate the text, as if clicking a message box, will save that evaluated text as the textedit value, respecting special characters like semicolons and commas. This mode is helpful if you wish to use textedit like a message box, where you can send messages with semicolons, separate messages with commas, etc.
			 




wordwrap[int]: 1




				Sets the way that the textedit object displays messages which are longer than the textedit display area. The message  wordwrap 0  will disable text wrapping on word boundaries in the display area.  wordwrap  is enabled (set to 1) by default.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				Outputs the typed or stored contents of the textedit object's buffer.
			 



int




				Sets the contents of the textedit object's buffer while causing no output.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      




float




				Sets the contents of the textedit object's buffer while causing no output.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




list




				Sets the contents of the textedit object's buffer while causing no output as long as the list is comprised of numbers, otherwise, an error message is displayed.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [list]
      




(mouse)



				Clicking with the mouse on the textedit object (when the patcher window is locked) will cause the textedit object to send either the letter or word selected out its right outlet depending on the setting of the click mode (see the  clickmode  message).
			 



(typing)



				When the textedit object is highlighted, typing enters text into the text display area and modifies its buffer, unless the object is set to read-only mode (see the  readonly  message). The ASCII value of the character typed is sent out the middle outlet.
			 



(drag)



				When a file is dragged onto the textedit object, the full file name will be added, replacing any text that was previously typed. Holding down the option/command (Mac), or option/alt (Windows), keys when releasing the mouse will append the file name to the existing text rather than replace it. If the file is in Max's search path, only the file name will be added. If the file is not in Max's search path, the entire file path will be added.
			 



append




				The word  append , followed by a message, will append the message to the textedit object's buffer without causing any output.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [list]
      




clear



				Erases the contents of the textedit object's buffer.
			 



dictionary




				The message  dictionary , followed by a valid dictionary name, displays the contents of a "text" key in dictionary in the textedit object, while causing no output. In order to  set  or  append  messages to textedit, the dictionary should contain a "mode" : "set" or "mode" : "append" entry.
			 
Arguments:
dict-name
      [symbol]
      




select



				Causes all text (if any) to be highlighted and sets the object to be the target of keyboard events if the object is not in read-only mode.
			 



set




				The word  set , followed by any message, sets the contents of the textedit object's buffer while causing no output.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [list]
      

Output

symbol

				Out left outlet: The currently stored contents of the textedit object's buffer preceded by the word  text  are output when the object receives a  bang  message. If the textedit message has been set to enter text on a carriage return using the  keymode 1  message, a carriage return will also output the typed text and the buffer contents.
			 


symbol

				Out middle outlet: The ASCII value of the typed key.
			 


symbol

				Out right outlet: The word or letter in the textedit object's text box that the user has clicked on.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




dialog


		Open a dialog box
	



jit.cellblock


		Edit rows and columns of data
	



text


		Format messages as a text file
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74