multislider - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesannotation_namebgcolorcandicane2candicane3candicane4candicane5candicane6candicane7candicane8candycanecompatibilitycontdatadrawpeaksghostbarlistresizeorientationparam_connectparameter_enableparameter_mappablepeakcolorsetminmaxsetstylesettypeshadowalphashadowblendshadoworientationshadowperbarshadowproportionsignedsizeslidercolorspacingstylethicknessannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangintfloatlistanythingcopydrawbarsdrawlinesechofetchinterpmaxmaximumminminimumnormalizepastepastereplacepeakresetquantilesrangescrollclearselectsetsetlistsetmaxsetminsumOutputfloatintlistSee AlsoPackage Maxmultislider

		Display data as sliders or a scrolling display
	 
Description

		Displays data as either an array of sliders or a scrolling display. When configured as sliders, the values are set (and output) as numeric lists. When configured as a scrolling display, multislider receives numbers, plots them, and scrolls the display area.
	 
Discussion

		Slider values are set by sending lists to the multislider object, which automatically reconfigures itself to have the same the number of sliders as elements in the list. The number of sliders, their range, style and additional attributes can all be set from the object's Inspector. The drawing styles include bar or thin-line slider handles (when using it as a slider), or point-value or zero-to-point in scrolling mode.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes



annotation_name[symbol]: 




				Info View Title
			 




bgcolor[4 floats]




				Specifies the background color of the multislider in RGBA format. object.
			 




candicane2[4 floats]: 0.498 0.5561 0.7451 1.




				Specifies the 2nd slider color in candycane mode in RGBA format.
			 




candicane3[4 floats]: 0.29392 0.41441 0.71583 1.




				Specifies the 3rd slider color in candycane mode in RGBA format.
			 




candicane4[4 floats]: 0.44088 0.62161 0.07375 1.




				Specifies the 4th slider color in candycane mode in RGBA format.
			 




candicane5[4 floats]: 0.58784 0.82881 0.43166 1.




				Specifies the 5th slider color in candycane mode in RGBA format.
			 




candicane6[4 floats]: 0.7348 0.03601 0.78958 1.




				Specifies the 6th slider color in candycane mode in RGBA format.
			 




candicane7[4 floats]: 0.88176 0.24321 0.14749 1.




				Specifies the 7th slider color in candycane mode in RGBA format.
			 




candicane8[4 floats]: 0.02872 0.45042 0.50541 1.




				Specifies the 8th slider color in candycane mode in RGBA format.
			 




candycane[int]: 1




				Enables the multislider object to use multiple colors for adjacent sliders, with the color pattern repeating (like the stripes in a candycane) every N sliders (indicated by the integer argument). The first eight colors can be set with the  frgba  and  rgba4 -  rgba10  messages, the next fifteen colors are taken from the Max application's color palette. The number of stripes in the candycane can also be set using the Inspector.
			 




compatibility[int]: 0




				Toggles the backwards-compatibility mode for the  maximum ,  minimum  and  sum  messages. If this mode is enabled, the multislider object will output the single-value results of these messages out the left outlet, otherwise the values will be output out the right (single slider value) outlet, just like the  fetch  message. Patches saved before Max 4.6 will automatically open with compatibility mode enabled.
			 




contdata[int]: 0




				Sets the mouse output mode for non-scrolling display styles. If this mode is set to  1  ( Mouse-Down + Continuous Data , the multislider object will output a list of its current slider values each time the mouse is clicked and dragged. If this mode is set to  0  ( Mouse-Down/Up , the multislider object will output a list when the mouse button is pressed and again when it is released. When set to  2  ( Mouse-Up Only ), the multislider object will only output a list when the mouse button is released. The mouse output mode can also be set using the Inspector.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Mouse-Down/Up'
                   (
								Output on Mouse-Down and Mouse-Up
							 )
								Output when the mouse button is pressed and again when it is released.
							 1 = 'Mouse-Down + Continuous Data'
                   (
								Output on Mouse-Down and Mouse-Drag
							 )
								Output when the mouse button is pressed and dragged.
							 2 = 'Mouse-Up Only'
                   (
								Output on Mouse-Up Only
							 )
								Output only when the mouse button is released.
							 




drawpeaks[int]: 0




				Toggles setting the multislider to draw peak-output lines when displaying slider values. When followed by a 0, the sliders will not show any peaks.
			 




ghostbar[int]: 0




				When followed by a percentage value from 1 to 100, enables the drawing of a "ghost" bar when mode the multislider object is in Thin Line mode. A percentage value of 1 will draw a very light bar behind the Thin Line line, a value of 50 will draw a half-dark bar, and a value of 100 will draw a bar the same color as the Thin Line slider. When the word  ghostbar  is followed by a zero, this drawing mode is disabled (which it is by default).
			 




listresize[int]: 1




				When enabled (default), the number of sliders will change in response to an incoming list, resizing to match the list length. When disabled, the number of sliders remains stable, without regard for the length of incoming lists.
			 




orientation[int]: 1




				The word  orientation  followed by a non-zero number will set the sliders to be drawn with a vertical orientation. When followed by a 0, multislider will be set to draw with a horizontal orientation.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Horizontal'
                  1 = 'Vertical'
                  




param_connect[symbol]: 




				Establishes a two-way connection between the object and a parameter of a compatible object with parameters such as gen~ or jit.gl.slab. The object can be used to change the value of the parameter and will update if the parameter value changes. The easiest way to set param_connect is with the attribute's menu in the inspector or the Connect submenu of the Object Action menu. The menu displays all available parameters of compatible objects.
				 

				Setting the param_connect attribute with a message requires the target parameter's path, which is the host object's scriping name followed by two colons and the parameter name. For example, for a gen~ object with scripting name  gen~_AB , the path of the  freq  parameter would be  gen~_AB::freq . You can set a value for the param_connect before the host object or parameter exists, and the object will connect to the parameter once it exists. Refer to the user guide entry for param_connect for more details.
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters and setting initial parameter values in Max.
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				When parameter_mappable is enabled, the object will be available for mapping to keyboard or MIDI input using the Mappings feature.
			 




peakcolor[4 floats]




				Specifies the peak indicators when Peak-Hold display is turned on (see  peakhold  and  peakreset  messages). The default value is grey ( rgb2 127 127 127 ).
			 




setminmax[2 floats]: -1. 1.




				Sets the low and high range values for the multislider object. The default values are -1.0 and 1.0 for floating point sliders and 0 and 127 for integer sliders.
			 




setstyle[int]: 0




				Sets the display style of the multislider object. The default value is Thin Line ( setstyle 0 ).
			 Possible values:0 = 'Thin Line'
                  1 = 'Bar'
                   (
								Display slider values as bars
							 )2 = 'Point Scroll'
                  3 = 'Line Scroll'
                  4 = 'Reverse Point Scroll'
                  5 = 'Reverse Line Scroll'
                  




settype[int]: 1




				Sets the multislider object for integer (0) or floating point (1) operation. The Inspector can also be used to set the multislider object's type. The default is integer ( settype 0 ).
			 Possible values:0 = 'Integer'
                   (
								Use integer values for operation
							 )1 = 'Floating-point'
                   (
								Use integer values for operation
							 )




shadowalpha[float]: 0.




				The shadowalpha attribute sets the opacity of the gradient shadow used to draw bars. At 0 (the default), the gradient is invisible; at 1 it is completely opaque. shadowalpha must be non-zero for the other shadow drawing attributes to have an effect on the object's appearance.
			 




shadowblend[float]: 0.




				Sets the amount of black blended with the object's linecolor to create the shadow. Values of shadowblend closer to 0 will be darker; values closer to 1 will be lighter.
			 




shadoworientation[int]: 0




				Shadow Orientation
			 Possible values:0 = 'Same'
                  1 = 'Opposite'
                  2 = 'Orthogonal'
                  3 = 'Orthogonal Opposite'
                  4 = 'Diagonal from Top Left'
                  5 = 'Diagonal from Bottom Left'
                  6 = 'Diagonal from Top Right'
                  7 = 'Diagonal from Bottom Right'
                  




shadowperbar[int]: 1




				Individual Bar Shadows
			 




shadowproportion[float]: 0.5




				Sets the vertical mid point within the shadow gradient. 0 is at the bottom, 1 is at the top.
			 




signed[int]: 0




				Sets the signed or unsigned display mode for bar sliders. The default is 0 (off), and bar sliders are drawn from the minimum value. When this mode is set to 1 (on) sliders are drawn from zero to either a positive or negative slider value.
			 




size[atom_long]: 1




				Sets the number of sliders the multislider object has. The default is 1, and the maximum number of sliders is 4096.
			 




slidercolor[4 floats]




				Specifies the slider color of the multislider object. The default value is black ( frgb 0 0 0 ).
			 




spacing[int]: 0




				Sets the amount of space (in pixels) between sliders. The default is 0 (all sliders touching one another).
			 




style[symbol]: 

>= 7.0.0


				Sets the style to be applied to the object. Styles can be set using the Format Palette.
			 




thickness[int]: 2




				Sets the pen thickness of "thin line"style sliders. The default thickness is 2 pixels.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				Outputs the current slider values as a list.
			 



int




				Sets all slider values and positions to the number received and outputs a list reflecting the current values. If the multislider data type is set to float, the values in the incoming list are converted to floats.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [int]
      




float




				Sets all slider values and positions to the number received and outputs a list reflecting the current values. If the multislider data type is set to int, the values in the incoming list are truncated and converted to ints.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [float]
      




list




				Sets each slider to a corresponding value in the list from left to right, with the first value in the list setting the first slider. If the multislider has a different number of sliders than is present in the list, the number of sliders is changed to the number of items in the list. In such a case, the outside dimensions of the multislider will not change, only the width or height of the sliders.
			 
Arguments:
input
      [list]
      




anything




 anything  is used to offer backwards compatibility in conjunction with the  compatibility  message.
			 
Arguments:
list
      [list]
      




copy



				The  copy  message copies the values of a multislider, including the settype, setstyle, and setminmax attributes.
			 



drawbars




				The word  drawbars  followed by a non-zero number will set the multislider to draw bars when displaying slider values. When followed by a 0, the sliders' values will not be drawn in bars.
			 
Arguments:
flag
      [int]
      




drawlines




				The word  drawlines  followed by a non-zero number will set the multislider to draw lines when displaying slider values. When followed by a 0, the sliders' values will not be drawn in lines.
			 
Arguments:
flag
      [int]
      




echo




				Toggles echo mode on and off. When echo mode is on, the multislider object will output any list received in its inlet. The default is on (1).
			 
Arguments:
flag
      [int]
      




fetch




				The word  fetch , followed by a number, sends the value of the numbered slider out the right (single slider value) outlet. Slider numbering starts at 1. Any number less than 1 will report the first slider's value.
			 
Arguments:
slider
      [int]
      




interp




				Sending the word  interp , followed by a one or zero, enables or disables interpolation mode. When interpolation mode is on (the default), the multislider object will output interpolated values when a slider is moved. In most cases you probably will not want to disable interpolation mode.
			 
Arguments:
mode
      [int]
      




max



				Sets all sliders to their maximum values.
			 



maximum



				The word  maximum  causes the value of the slider with the largest value to be sent out the right outlet.
			 



min



				Sets all sliders to their minimum values.
			 



minimum



				The word  minimum  causes the value of the slider with the smallest value to be sent out the right outlet.
			 



normalize




				The word  normalize , followed by a float, will scale the sample values in the multislider so that the highest number matches the value given by the argument. Every value is scaled, and this activity cannot be undone. Although the  normalize  message calculates a normalized list based on the value passed as its argument, the message does not update the values in the multislider object itself or display them.
			 
Arguments:
number
      [float]
      




paste



				The  paste  message pastes multislider values that were previously copied if the settype, setstyle, and setminmax attributes are the same. Pasting will fail if the multislider that you paste into does not have the same settype, setstyle, and setminmax attributes.
			 



pastereplace



				The  pastereplace  message pastes multislider values that were previously copied and sets the settype, setstyle, and setminmax attributes so that they are the same as what was copied.
			 



peakreset



				Reset peak values to current slider values
			 



quantiles




				In left inlet: The word  quantiles , followed by a list of floats between 0 and 1.0, multiplies each list element by the sum of all the values in the multislider. This result is then divided by 215 (32,768). Then, multislider sends out the address at which the sum of all values up to that address is greater than or equal to the result for each list element.
			 
Arguments:
numbers
      [list]
      




range




				The word  range  followed by a minimum number and a maximum number will set all sliders to operate within that range.
			 
Arguments:

minimum
      [number]
      
maximum
      [number]
      





scrollclear



				Clear the multislider object in scrolling mode.
			 



select




				Selectively sets slider values. For example,  select 1 30 2 4 5 50  sets the first slider to 30, the second to 4, and the fifth slider to 50 (the top or leftmost slider is always number 1).
			 
Arguments:
value-pairs
      [list]
      




set




				The word  set , followed by a slider number and a value, sets the numbered slider to that value without triggering any output.
			 
Arguments:

slider
      [number]
      
value
      [number]
      





setlist




				The word  setlist , followed by a list of slider values, sets the sliders to the listed values without triggering any output.
			 
Arguments:
values
      [list]
      




setmax




				The word  setmax , followed by a number, sets the high values for the multislider object.
			 
Arguments:
value
      [float]
      




setmin




				The word  setmin , followed by a number, sets the low values for the multislider object.
			 
Arguments:
value
      [float]
      




sum



				Outputs a sum of all current slider values as a float.
			 
Output

float

				Out right outlet: The value of a numbered slider specified by the  fetch  message. The output reflects the current data type settings (see the  settype  message).
			 


int

				Out right outlet: The value of a numbered slider specified by the  fetch  message. The output reflects the current data type settings (see the  settype  message).
			 


list

				Out left outlet: When a multislider receives a list, int, or float in its inlet, it outputs a list of its current values. The list is also sent out when the sliders are changed with the mouse.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




itable


		Data table editor
	



kslider


		Output numbers from an onscreen keyboard
	



matrixctrl


		Matrix switch control
	



pictslider


		Picture-based slider control
	



rslider


		Display or change a range of numbers
	



slider


		Move a slider to output values
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74