radiogroup - Max Reference | Cycling '74 DocumentationUser GuideReference API ReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject ReferenceObject & Operator ReferenceLearnUser GuideReferenceMax JavaScript APILive Object ModelNode for Max APIObject & Operator ReferenceLearnSwitch ThemeOn this pageDescriptionArgumentsAttributesactivecolorannotation_namebgcolorelementcolorenabledflagmodeinactiveitemtypeoffsetparam_connectparameter_enableparameter_mappableselectionshapesizestyleannotationbackgroundcolorfontfacefontnamefontsizehiddenhintignoreclickjspainterfilepatching_rectpositionpresentationpresentation_rectrectsizetextcolortextjustificationvaluepopupvaluepopuplabelvarnameOrderParameter Mode EnableLink to Scripting NameLong NameShort NameTypeRange/EnumClip Modulation ModeClip Modulation RangeInitial EnableInitialUnit StyleCustom UnitsExponentStepsControl Surface Button ModeParameter VisibilityUndo When VisibleUpdate Limit (ms)Defer Automation OutputMessagesbangintlistdisableitemenableitem(mouse)setOutputintlistSee AlsoPackage Maxradiogroup

		Radio button or check box
	 
Description

		Provides a user interface for option selection. There are two modes of operation: radio button and checkbox.
	 
Discussion

		The radiogroup object has two modes of operation: radio button and check box. In radio button mode, the radiogroup object provides a user-definable number of buttons in a group, only one of which may be selected at a time. In check box mode, the indicators in the radiogroup object function as a set of on/off indicators. Check box mode also supports a way to have the checkboxes act as indicators for the bit pattern of a binary representation of an integer (see the  flagmode  message).
		 

		Note: radiogroup can be re-sized horizontally so it will extend under comment boxes placed to the right of the buttons or boxes. this way, clicking on the text to the right of the button will also set the button selection or box state.
	 
Arguments
None.Attributes



activecolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the active radiobuttons/checkboxes in RGBA format.
			 




annotation_name[symbol]: 




				Info View Title
			 




bgcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the background color for the object in RGBA format.
			 




elementcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the off color for the radiobuttons/checkboxes in RGBA format. This color only applies if the shape attribute is set to Square (1) or Circle (2).
			 




enabled[atom]




				Enables/disables buttons. The word  enabled , followed by followed by a list of zeroes and ones whose length is the same as the number of buttons or boxes, will disable (0) or enable (1) the item in the list position that corresponds to the button or box (e.g.,  enableitem 1 1 1 0  will disable only the fourth button or box).
			 




flagmode[int]: 0




				Sets the flag mode of operation for the radiogroup object. In this mode, each check box corresponds to one bit in an integer value (i.e., the first radio button or checkbox corresponds to the ones bit, the second button or checkbox to the twos bit, the third button or checkbox to the fours bit, etc.). The message  flagmode 0  disables this mode (default).
			 




inactive[int]: 0




				Toggles the active or inactive state of the entire group of radio buttons or check boxes.
			 




itemtype[atom_long]: 0




				Selects the mode of operation for the radiogroup object.
				 
 Button  (the default)
				 
 Checkbox 
Possible values:0 = 'Radio Buttons'
                  1 = 'Check Boxes'
                  




offset[int]: 16




				Sets the pixel offset (spacing) between the tops of the buttons/boxes. the minimum offset is 14 pixels, the default offset is 16 pixels.
			 




param_connect[symbol]: 




				Connect to Parameter
			 




parameter_enable[int]




				Enables use of this object with Max for Live Parameters and setting initial parameter values in Max.
			 




parameter_mappable[int]: 1




				When parameter_mappable is enabled, the object will be available for mapping to keyboard or MIDI input using the Mappings feature.
			 




selection[atom]




				Specifies the currently selected button or box.
			 




shape[int]: 0

>= 7.0.0


				Sets the shape of the radiobuttons/checkboxes.
			 Possible values:0 = 'Classic'
                  1 = 'Square'
                  2 = 'Circle'
                  




size[atom_long]: 2




				Specifies the number of buttons or boxes. The default is 2, and the maximum is 64. Note: If you care using the radiogroup object in check box mode and have enabled Flag Mode, you will only be able to set 32 checkboxes.
			 




style[symbol]: 

>= 7.0.0


				Sets the style to be applied to the object. Styles can be set using the Format Palette.
			 


Common Box Attributes


		Below is a list of attributes shared by all objects. If you want to change one of these attributes for an object based on the object box, you need to place the word  sendbox  in front of the attribute name, or use the object's Inspector.
	 



annotation[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in the Clue window when the user moves the mouse over the object.
			 




background[int]: 0




				Adds or removes the object from the patcher's background layer.  background 1  adds the object to the background layer,  background 0  removes it. Objects in the background layer are shown behind all objects in the default foreground layer.
			 




color[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object box outline.
			 




fontface[int]




				Sets the type style used by the object. The options are:
				 

				plain
				 
				bold
				 
				italic
				 
				bold italic
			 Possible values:0 = 'regular'
                  1 = 'bold'
                  2 = 'italic'
                  3 = 'bold italic'
                  




fontname[symbol]




				Sets the object's font.
			 




fontsize[float]




				Sets the object's font size (in points).
			 Possible values:
                    '8'
                  
                    '9'
                  
                    '10'
                  
                    '11'
                  
                    '12'
                  
                    '13'
                  
                    '14'
                  
                    '16'
                  
                    '18'
                  
                    '20'
                  
                    '24'
                  
                    '30'
                  
                    '36'
                  
                    '48'
                  
                    '64'
                  
                    '72'
                  




hidden[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object is hidden when the patcher is locked.
			 




hint[symbol]




				Sets the text that will be displayed in as a pop-up hint when the user moves the mouse over the object in a locked patcher.
			 




ignoreclick[int]: 0




				Toggles whether an object ignores mouse clicks in a locked patcher.
			 




jspainterfile[symbol]




				You can override the default appearance of a user interface object by assigning a JavaScript file with code for painting the object. The file must be in the search path.
			 




patching_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 100. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 patching_position, patching_size

				Sets the position and size of the object in the patcher window.
			 





position[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's x and y position in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its size unchanged.
			 




presentation[int]: 0




				Sets whether an object belongs to the patcher's presentation.
			 




presentation_rect[4 floats]: 0. 0. 0. 0.





                  Aliases:
                 presentation_position, presentation_size

				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in the patcher's presentation, leaving its patching position unchanged.
			 





rect[4 floats]

write-only


				Sets the x and y position and width and height of the object in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation).
			 




size[2 floats]

write-only


				Sets the object's width and height in both patching and presentation modes (if the object belongs to its patcher's presentation), leaving its position unchanged.
			 




textcolor[4 floats]




				Sets the color for the object's text in RGBA format.
			 




textjustification[int]




				Sets the justification for the object's text.
			 Possible values:0 = 'left'
                  1 = 'center'
                  2 = 'right'
                  




valuepopup[int]: 0




				For objects with single values, enabling valuepopup will display the object's current value in a popup caption when the mouse is over the object or it is being changed with the mouse.
			 




valuepopuplabel[int]: 0




				Sets the source of a text label shown in a value popup caption.
			 Possible values:0 = 'None'
                  1 = 'Hint'
                  2 = 'Scripting Name'
                  3 = 'Parameter Long Name'
                  4 = 'Parameter Short Name'
                  




varname[symbol]




				Sets the patcher's scripting name, which can be used to address the object by name in pattr, scripting messages to thispatcher, and the js object.
			 




Parameter Attributes



Orderint


        Sets the order of recall of this parameter. Lower numbers are recalled
        first. The order of recall of parameters with the same order number is
        undefined.
 



Parameter Mode Enableint


        Parameter Mode Enable (not available from Parameters window)
 



Link to Scripting Nameint


        When checked, the Scripting Name is linked to the Long Name attribute.
 



Long Namesymbol


        The long name of the parameter. This name must be unique per patcher
        hierarchy.
 



Short Namesymbol


        Sets the short name for the object's visual display. The maximum length
        varies according to letter width, but is generally in a range of 5 to 7
        characters.
 



Typeint


        Specifies the data type. The data types used in Max for Live are:
 

         Float
 
         Int
 
         Enum (enumerated list)
 
         Blob
 

         Note: By convention, the Live application uses floating point numbers
        for its calculations; the native integer representation is limited to 256
        values, with a default range of 0-255 (similar to the char data type used 
        in Jitter). When working with Live UI objects whose integer values will 
        exceed this range, the Type attribute should be set to Float,
        and the Unit Style attribute should be set to Int.
 



Range/Enumlist


        When used with an integer or floating point data type, this field is
        used to specify the minimum and maximum values of the parameter.
 
        When used with an enumerated list (Enum) data type, this field contains
        a space-delimited list of the enumerated values (if list items contain a
        space or special characters, the name should be enclosed in double
        quotes).
 



Clip Modulation Modeint


        Sets the Clip Modulation Mode used by the Live application. The modulation
        modes are:
 

         None
 
         Unipolar
 
         Bipolar
 
         Additive
 
         Absolute
 





Clip Modulation Rangelist


        This parameter is only used with the Absolute modulation mode. It
        specifies defines the range of values used.
 



Initial Enableint


        When checked (set to 1), the UI object can store an initialization
        value. The value is set using the Initial attribute (see below).
 



Initiallist


        Sets the initial value to be stored and used when the Initial Enable
        attribute is checked.
 



Unit Styleint


        Sets the unit style to be used when displaying values. The unit style
        values are: Int: displays integer values
 
         Float: displays floating point values
 
         Time: displays time values in milliseconds (ms)
 
         Hertz: displays frequency values (Hz/kHz).
 
         deciBel: displays loudness (dB)
 
         %: Percentage
 
         Pan: displays Left and Right values
 
         Semitones: displays steps (st)
 
         MIDI: displays pitch corresponding to the MIDI note number
 
         Custom: displays custom data type
 
         Native: defaults to floating point values
 



Custom Unitssymbol


        Sets the units to be used with the 'Custom' unit style (see "Unit
        Style", above). Custom unit strings may be simple symbols (e.g.
        "Harmonic(s)"), in which case the parameter's value will be displayed in
        its 'Native' display mode, followed by the symbol (e.g. "12 Harmonic(s)"
        for an Int-typed parameter or "12.54 Harmonic(s)" for a Float-typed
        parameter). For additional control over the numerical component
        displayed, a sprintf-style string may be used (e.g. "%0.2f Bogon(s)",
        which would display a value such as ".87 Bogons").
 



Exponentfloat


        When set to a value other than 1., the parameter's input and output
        values will be exponentially scaled according to the factor entered in
        this column.
 



Stepsint


        The number of steps available between the minimum and maximum values of
        a parameter. For instance, if the parameter has a range from 0.-64.,
        with Steps set to 4, the user can only set the parameter to 0, 21.33,
        42.66 and 64.
 



Control Surface Button Modesymbol


        The behavior of control surface buttons, when the parameter is assigned with the live.banks object. Currently available modes are:
 
 Toggle : switches between minimum and maximum value (default)
 
 Trigger : outputs the maximum value, immediately followed by the minimum value
 
 Cycle : cycles through available enum values
 



Parameter Visibilityint


        For automatable parameters (Int, Float, Enum), 'Stored Only' disables
        automation, although parameter values are stored in presets. 'Hidden'
        causes the parameter's value to be ignored when storing and recalling
        data. Non-automatable parameters (Blob) are 'Stored Only' by default,
        and can be set to 'Hidden', if desired.

        The 'Visible' and 'Visible (Not Stored)' visibility modes expose parameters to Live, but don't support automation. Practically, this means that they are visible to Push (and other control surfaces), but won't appear in Live's automation view. The 'Visible' mode also causes Live to store the parameter's value in presets and with the set for later restore. 'Visible (Not Stored)' does not store the value (useful for momentary controls). Note that these modes are only available for Float, Int and Enum parameter types.

When using these 'Visible' modes, a new parameter attribute will become available in the object's inspector: 'Undo When Visible'. This is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Undo When Visibleint


        When using the 'Visible' modes (see 'Parameter Visibility'), a this attribute is available in the object's inspector. It is on by default, but when disabled, a Visible parameter becomes invisible to Live's Undo system.
 



Update Limit (ms)int


        Speed limits values triggered by automation.
 



Defer Automation Outputint


        Defers values triggered by automation.
 


Messages


bang



				In radio button mode: A  bang  outputs the currently selected radio button number.
				 

				In check box mode: A  bang  outputs a list of zeros and ones representing the on/off state of the check boxes.
				 

				In flag mode: A  bang  send the integer that corresponds to the bit pattern of the currently checked boxes (i.e., if boxes one, two, and three are checked, a  bang  will output a value of  7 )out the radiogroup object's output.
			 



int




				In radio button mode: An integer sets the radio button selection and outputs the input value. Numbering starts with 0, and a negative number indicates that no buttons will be selected.
				 

				In flag mode: An integer value received in the radiogroup object's inlet will set the buttons or checkboxes to reflect the bit pattern of the integer value (i.e., a value of 19 will select boxes one, two, and five, corresponding to the binary value  10011 ) and send the integer value out the radiogroup object's output.
			 
Arguments:
selection
      [int]
      




list




				In check box mode: list of zeros and ones sets the check box states and causes output of the input list. If you have specified check box mode and have the flag mode set using the  flagmode 1  message, a list of zeros and ones sets the check box states and causes output of the input list.
			 
Arguments:
states
      [list]
      




disableitem




				In radio button and check box modes: disable the items whose numbers are indicated (they will be drawn in grey and will not respond to clicks, although they will still respond to  set  messages, ints or lists).
			 
Arguments:
indices
      [list]
      




enableitem




				In radio button and check box modes: The word  enableitem , followed by followed by a number or list of numbers, will enable the items whose numbers are indicated if they have been disabled with the  disableitem  message.
			 
Arguments:
indices
      [list]
      




(mouse)



				In  radio button  mode, clicking on a radio button will set the radio button selection and output the corresponding button number (numbering starts from zero). In  check box  mode, clicking on a check box will change its state (from one to zero or from zero to one) and output a list of zeros and ones corresponding to the on/off state of the boxes. if the entire group of buttons/boxes is inactive (grayed out) it will not respond to clicks. if an individual item is disabled (grayed out) it will not respond to clicks, although active items in the group will still respond to clicks as usual. The  Flag Mode  variation on the  check box  mode has check boxes that correspond to bit positions for a binary value (i.e. the first checkbox corresponds to the 1s, the second to 2s, the third to 4s, etc.) Clicking on a check box will select or deselect the check box and output the integer value which corresponds to the bit pattern.
			 



set




				In radio button mode: The word  set , followed by a number, sets the currently selected radio button without triggering any output.
				 

				In check box mode: The word  set , followed by a list of zeros and ones, sets the check box states without triggering any output.
				 

				If you are using check box mode and are also using Flag Mode, a number will set the state of the first 32 checkboxes in a pattern which corresponds to the bit pattern of the number without triggering output (see the  flagmode  section for more information).
			 
Arguments:
selection
      [list]
      

Output

int

				In radio button mode: Clicking on a radio button outputs an int corresponding to the radio button selected. Numbering begins with 0.
				 

				In flag mode: Clicking on a check box outputs an int corresponding to the bit pattern represented by the checked boxes (i.e., if boxes one, two, and three are checked, a  bang  will output a value of  7 ).
			 


list

				In check box mode: A  bang  will output a list of zeros and one which indicate the on/off state of the group of check boxes.
			 
See Also


Name
Description




button


		Blink and send a bang 
	



matrixctrl


		Matrix switch control
	



pictctrl


		Picture-based control
	



toggle


		Switch between off and on (0 and 1)
	



ubutton


		Transparent button
	



ResourcesRNBO DocumentationPDF DocumentationLegacy DocumentationCycling '74 WebsiteSupportKnowledge BaseReport an issueCommunitiesCycling '74 ForumsMax DiscordLegal InfoPrivacy PolicyCopyright © 2024 Cycling '74